.TH KASB 1 "DEC only"
.SH NAME
kasb, kunb \- assembler/un-assembler for the \s-1KMC\s+1\&11\s-1B\s+1 microprocessor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kasb
[ name ]
[
.B \-o
name1 ]
[
.B \-d
name2 ]
.PP
.B kunb
[ name ]
[
.B \-o
name1 ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Kasb\^
is an assembler/debugger/loader for the
.SM KMC\*S11B microprocessor.
The optional argument
.I name\^
specifies the input file; default is standard input.
The optional argument
.B \-o
indicates that the next argument
.I name1\^
will be the output of the assembler;
default is
.BR a.out .
The optional argument
.B \-d
indicates that the assembler is to be used in debug mode and
that the next argument
.I name2\^
is the device file name of the 
microprocessor.
No output file is created in debug mode.
.PP
Error diagnostics are written on the standard error output
and contain the input file name and line number
and a brief description of the error.
C preprocessor control lines to change the file name and line number
are recognized.
This allows the use of the preprocessor to expand the input before
assembly.
.PP
.I Kunb\^
is an un-assembler for the \s-1KMC\s+1\&11/\s-1DMC\s+1\&11
microprocessor.
It produces an output listing, acceptable to the assembler
.IR kasb ,
from the input object.
.PP
The optional argument
.I name\^
specifies the input object, default is standard input.
The format of the input is either
assembler output (first word magic 0410), or
formatted dump (first word magic 0440), or
raw dump (anything else).
In the first two cases, the header is ignored.
.PP
The optional argument
.B \-o
indicates that the next argument
.I name1\^
is to contain the output listing, default
is standard output.
.PP
The input object is first scanned to determine branch
destinations.
Labels will be inserted at these locations with format
.BI L int :\^\fR,
where
.I int\^
is the octal value of the location in words.
Immediate values of instructions are also printed in octal.
Page breaks are noted by the labels
.BR P0: ,
.BR .\|.\|. ,
.BR P3: .
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 1i
a.out
output object
.TP
/dev/kmc?
microprocessor device
.TP
/lib/cpp
C preprocessor
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
kmc(7), vpm(7).
.br
.I "Assembler for the \s-1DEC KMC\s+111 Microprocessor\^"
by L. A. Wehr.
.\"	@(#)kasb.1	5.2 of 5/18/82
