.TH NROFF 1
.SH NAME
nroff \- format text
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nroff
[ options ] [ files ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Nroff\^
formats text contained in
.I files\^
(standard input by default)
for printing on typewriter-like devices
and line printers.
Its capabilities are described in the
.I N\s-1ROFF\s+1\^/\^T\s-1ROFF\s+1 User's Manual\^
cited below.
.PP
An argument consisting of a minus
.RB ( \- )
is taken to be
a file name corresponding to the standard input.
The
.IR options ,
which may appear in any order, but must appear
before the
.IR files ,
are:
.PP
.PD 0
.TP "\w'\f3\-m\fP\f2name\fP\^\ \ 'u"
.BI \-o list\^
Print only pages whose page numbers appear in
the
.I list\^
of numbers and ranges, separated by commas.
A range
.IB N \- M\^
means pages
.I N\^
through
.IR M ;
an initial
.BI \- N\^
means
from the beginning to page
.IR N ;
and a final
.IB N \-
means
from
.I N\^
to the end.
(See
.SM
.I BUGS\^
below.)
.TP
.BI \-n N\^
Number first generated page
.IR N .
.TP
.BI \-s N\^
Stop every
.I N\^
pages.
.I Nroff\^
will halt
.I after\^
every
.I N\^
pages (default
.IR N =1)
to allow paper loading or
changing, and will resume upon receipt of a line-feed or new-line
(new-lines do not work in pipelines, e.g., with
.IR mm (1)).
This option does not work if the output of
.I nroff\^
is piped through
.IR col (1).
When
.I nroff\^
halts between pages, an
.SM ASCII
.SM
.B BEL
is sent to the terminal.
.TP
.BI \-r aN\^
Set register
.I a\^
(which must have a one-character name) to
.IR N .
.TP
.B \-i
Read standard input after
.I files\^
are exhausted.
.TP
.B \-q
Invoke the simultaneous input-output mode of the
.B \&.rd
request.
.TP
.B \-z
Print only messages generated by
.B \&.tm
(terminal message)
requests.
.TP
.BI \-m name\^
Prepend to the input
.I files\^
the non-compacted (\s-1ASCII\s+1 text) macro file
.BI /usr/lib/tmac/tmac. name\^\f1.\fP
.TP
.BI \-c name\^
Prepend to the input
.na
.I files\^
the compacted macro files
.BR /usr/lib/macros/cmp. [ nt ] .\c
.RB [ dt ] .\f2name\fP\^
and
.BR /usr/lib/macros/ucmp. [ nt ] .\f2name\fP\^ .
.ad
.TP
.BI \-k name\^
Compact the macros used in this
invocation of
.IR nroff ,
placing the output in files
.RB [ dt ] .\f2name\fP\^
in the current directory
(see the May 1979 Addendum to the
.I N\s-1ROFF\s+1\^/\^T\s-1ROFF\s+1 User's Manual\^
for details of compacting macro files).
.TP
.BI \-T name\^
Prepare output for specified terminal.
Known
.IR name s
are
.B 37
for the (default)
.SM TELETYPE\*S\*R
Model 37 terminal,
.B tn300
for the
.SM GE
TermiNet\ 300 (or any terminal without half-line
capability),
.B 300s
for the
.SM DASI
300s,
.B 300
for the
.SM DASI
300,
.B 450
for the
.SM DASI
450,
.B lp
for a (generic)
.SM ASCII
line printer,
.B 382
for the
.SM DTC\*S-382,
.B 4000A
for the Trendata 4000A,
.B 832
for the Anderson Jacobson 832,
.B X
for a (generic)
.SM EBCDIC
printer, and
.B 2631
for the Hewlett Packard 2631 line printer.
.TP
.B \-e
Produce equally-spaced words in adjusted
lines, using the full resolution of the particular terminal.
.TP
.B \-h
Use output tabs during horizontal spacing
to speed output and reduce output character count.
Tab settings are assumed to be every
8 nominal character widths.
.TP
.BI \-u n\^
Set the emboldening factor (number of character overstrikes) for the
third font position (bold) to
.IR n ,
or to zero if
.I n\^
is missing.
.br
.ne 6v
.SH FILES
.ta \w'/usr/lib/tmac/tmac\f3.\fP\(**\ \ 'u
.PD 0
/usr/lib/suftab	suffix hyphenation tables
.PP
/tmp/ta$#	temporary file
.PP
/usr/lib/tmac/tmac\f3.\fP\(**	standard macro files and pointers
.PP
/usr/lib/macros/\(**	standard macro files
.PP
/usr/lib/term/\(**	terminal driving tables for
.I nroff\^
.PD
.DT
.SH SEE ALSO
.PD 0
.I N\s-1ROFF\s+1\^/\^T\s-1ROFF\s+1 User's Manual\^
.PP
.I "A T\s-1ROFF\s+1 Tutorial\^"
.PP
col(1), cw(1), eqn(1), greek(1), mm(1),
tbl(1), troff(1), mm(5).
.PD
.SH BUGS
.I Nroff
believes in Eastern Standard Time;
as a result, depending on the time of the year and on your local time zone,
the date that
.I nroff
generates may be off by one day from your idea of what the date is.
.br
When
.I nroff
is used with the
.BI \-o list\^
option inside a pipeline
(e.g., with one or more of
.IR cw (1),
.IR eqn (1),
and
.IR tbl (1)),
it may cause a harmless ``broken pipe'' diagnostic
if the last page of the document is not specified in
.IR list .
.\"	@(#)nroff.1	5.2 of 5/18/82
