.\"@(#)nscstat.1c	5.2
.TH NSCSTAT 1C
.SH NAME
nscstat \- query the operation status of the \s-1NSC\s+1 network
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nscstat
[ netname ... ]
.RB [ \-ludqrbpa ]
.RB [ \-n " names ]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IR Nscstat ,
without arguments, gives a short operational status report
of the \s-1NSC\s+1 network from the viewpoint of the local node.
This includes the status of the \s-1NSC\s+1 network
and the total number of files queued for transmission.
A list of network names may be specified.
If no network names are given, the options specified are
performed for all known networks.
.I Nscstat
recognizes the following arguments:
.PP
.TP "\w'\fB\-l\fP\ \ 'u"
.B \-l
Output a long listing.
This option indicates the status of the printed
node (on-line or off-line), the total number
of files queued waiting transmission to this node,
and the time when the first job was queued for transmission.
.TP
.B \-p
Report the last time the system received a 
.I poke
from remote systems.
.TP
.B \-r
Report the last time the system received a request to transfer from remote
systems.
.TP
.B \-b
Report the last time the current system had to notify remote systems
that it was too busy to handle its request.
.TP
.B \-u
List the status of all nodes that are on-line (up).
.TP
.B \-d
List the status of all nodes that are off-line (down).
.TP
.B \-q
List the status of all nodes that have files queued for transmission.
.TP
.B \-a
List the status of all nodes configured on the network.
.TP
.BR \-n " names"
.I Name
specifies that status is requested for this node only.
If more than one network is specified, this option is disabled.
.PP
Each of the above arguments may be used singly or together with
several others.
When used together, the output is the intersection
of the sets of nodes matching each option.
If a node name list is specified, status for that node will only
be reported if it is in the intersection set of the specified options.
.SH EXAMPLE
To get a long listing of all nodes that are currently off-line and
have files queued for transmission:
.PP
.RS
nscstat \|\-ldq
.RE
.PP
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP "\w'/usr/nsc/on-line/\(**\ \ 'u"
/usr/nsc/rvchan
list of nodes currently configured on the network
.TP
/usr/nsc/cons/\(**
nodes that are considered on-line
.TP
/usr/nsc/jobs/\s-1C\s+1\(**
jobs queued for transmission
.TP
/usr/nsc/cons/on-line/\(**
whether the \s-1NSC\s+1 network is active or not on this network
.SH BUGS
.I Nscstat
tries to interpret the specified options intelligently.
If none of
the options specified apply to any of the
specified nodes, no detailed status will be reported.
.\"	@(#)nscstat.1c	5.2 of 5/18/82
