.if t .ds ' \h@.05m@\s+4\v@.333m@\'\v@-.333m@\s-4\h@.05m@
.if n .ds ' '
.if t .ds ` \h@.05m@\s+4\v@.333m@\`\v@-.333m@\s-4\h@.05m@
.if n .ds ` `
.TH NUSEND 1C
.SH NAME
nusend \- send files to another \s-1UNIX\s+1 System on the \s-1NSC\s+1 network
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nusend
.BR \-d "\ dest"
.RB [ \-n "\ netname]"
.RB [ \-a "\ acct]"
.RB [ \-m ]
.RB [ \-e ]
.RB [ \-s ]
.RB [ \-c ]
.RB [ \-x ]
.RB [ \-u "\ destuser]"
.RB [\|[ \-f "\ destfile] srcfile]"
.RB [ \-! cmd
[cmdfile]\|]
.B .\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Nusend
sends copies of the named files or command to another
.SM UNIX
system
via the
.SM NSC
network.
If the file name
.B \-
is given, the standard input is read
at that point.
.TP \w'\fB\-d\fP\ dest\ \ 'u
.BR \-d " dest"
Destination.
.I Dest
can be any one of
the
.SM UNIX
systems
on the
.SM NSC
local network.
See
.B /usr/nsc/rvchan
for an up-to-date list of valid \s-1NSC\s+1 destinations.
.TP
.BR \-n " netname"
Network name.
.I Netname
can be any one of the networks known to the local system
(see
.IR nscmon (1M)
for the definition of a network.
This option is only needed when sending to your own system.
See
.B /usr/nsc/nets
for the up-to-date list of valid networks).
.TP
.BR \-a " acct"
Use
.I acct
as the account number for the
job.
By default, the account number is read from the password file.
.TP
.B \-s
Silent.
Suppress the one-line message which contains the submitted job name.
.TP
.B \-c
Copy.
Make a copy of the file.
Default is to set up a
pointer to the file in the user's directory.
If any changes are made to the file before
transmission, the changes will be sent to the
destination unless the
.B \-c
option is used.
.TP
.B \-x
Generate checksums on all data tranmissions.
.PP
Mail will normally be sent to the receiving login(s) to report the
receipt of the file(s).  Mail will be sent to both sending and
receiving logins if there were errors in transmission.
The default may be overridden with the following switches:
.TP \w'\fB\-d\fP\ dest\ \ 'u
.B \-m
Report by
.IR mail (1)
when the file transfer is complete.
The mail is sent from the remote system via
.IR nusend .
.TP
.B \-e
Report by
.IR mail (1)
only when an error occurred during the transfer.  No other mail will be sent.
.PP
Normally, the login name under which the new file will appear
on the destination system
is the same as the login name of the person who issues the command.
.PP
The following options, each as a separate argument, may be interspersed
with file name arguments:
.TP \w'\fB\-d\fP\ dest\ \ 'u
.B \-u
Use the next argument as the destination user's login name for
all succeeding files.
.TP
.B \-f
Use the next argument as the destination file name
for the succeeding file.
.I Srcfile
must be specified.
The destination path name is assumed to be relative
to the destination login directory if there is no leading
.BR / .
In either case, the target directory must be mode 777, or
if the file already exists, the file must be writable by others.
By default, files are delivered to directory
.B rje
under the destination login directory.
.B Rje
must have been previously created in mode 777 for everything to work.
The name of the destination file is ordinarily the same as the last
component of the original file.
When the standard input is sent, the destination file name is normally
taken to be
.BR pipe.end .
If
.B \-
is used, the standard input is taken.
.TP
.BR \-! cmd
.I Cmd
is sent to the remote machine for execution.
A file name or
.B \-
can be used as standard input to the command.
If no file is specified,
.B /dev/null
is used.
.SH EXAMPLES
Assuming \s-1XXAAA\s+1, \s-1XXBBB\s+1 and \s-1XXCCC\s+1 are machines on the
.B \s-1NSC\s+1
network, then:
.PP
To send files
.IR file1 ,
.IR file2 ,
and
.IR file3
to
.SM XXAAA
(assuming the source and destination logins are the same):
.PP
.RS
nusend \|\-d \|\s-1XXAAA\s+1 \|file1 \|file2 \|file3
.RE
.PP
To send file
.B cprog.c
to login name
.B dave
on
.SM XXBBB
and to get confirmation mail returned:
.PP
.RS
nusend \|\-d \|\s-1XXBBB\s+1 \|\-m \|\-u \|dave \|cprog.c
.RE
.PP
To send file
.B myfile
to \s-1XXCCC\s+1
and rename it to
.B yourfile
(assuming the source and destination logins are the same):
.PP
.RS
nusend \|\-d \|\s-1XXCCC\s+1 \|\-f \|yourfile \|myfile
.RE
.PP
To send file
.B a.out
from \s-1XXAAA\s+1 to login name
.B debbie
on \s-1XXBBB\s+1 via
remote execution:
.PP
.RS
nusend \-d \|\s-1XXAAA\s+1 \
.RS
\|\-!\*'nusend \|\-d \|XXBBB \|\-u \|debbie \|\*`logdir \|debbie\*`/a.out\*'
.RE
.RE
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP \w'/usr/nsc/log/usendlog\ \ 'u
/etc/passwd
account number for \s-1NSC\s+1 job
.TP
/usr/nsc/jobs/\s-1C\s+1\(**
job queue area
.TP
/usr/nsc/rvchan
table of known destinations
.TP
/usr/nsc/nets
table of known networks
.TP
/usr/nsc/log/nusend
usage log
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
mail(1), nscstat(1C).
.\"	@(#)nusend.1c	5.2 of 5/18/82
