.TH PROF 1
.SH NAME
prof \- display profile data
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B prof
.RB [ \-tcan ]
.RB [ \-ox ]
.RB [ \-g ]
.RB [ \-z ]
.RB [ \-h ]
.RB [ \-s ]
.RB [ \-m "\ mdata]"
[prog]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Prof\^
interprets the profile file
produced by the
.IR monitor (3C)
function.
The symbol table in the object file
.I prog\^
.RB ( a.out
by default)
is read and correlated with the profile file
.RB ( mon.out
by default).
For each external text symbol the percentage
of time spent executing between the address of that symbol
and the address of the next
is printed, together with the number of times that function
was called and the average number of milliseconds per call.
.PP
The mutually exclusive options
.B t, c, a,\^
and
.B n\^
determine the type of sorting of the output lines:
.TP
.B \-t
Sort by decreasing percentage of total time (default).
.TP
.B \-c
Sort by decreasing number of calls.
.TP
.B \-a
Sort by increasing symbol address.
.TP
.B \-n
Sort lexically by symbol name.
.PP
The mutually exclusive options
.B o\^
and
.B x\^
specify the printing of the address of each symbol monitored:
.TP
.B \-o
Print each symbol address (in octal) along with the symbol name.
.TP
.B \-x
Print each symbol address (in hexadecimal) along with the symbol name.
.PP
The following options may be used in any combination:
.TP
.B \-g
Include non-global symbols (static functions).
.TP
.B \-z
Include all symbols in the profile range (see
.IR monitor (3C)),
even if associated with zero number of calls and zero time.
.TP
.B \-h
Suppress the heading normally printed on the report.
(This is useful if the report is to be processed further.)
.TP
.B \-s
Print a summary of several of the
monitoring parameters and statistics on the standard error output.
.TP
.BR \-m " mdata\^"
Use file
.I mdata\^
instead of
.B mon.out
for profiling data.
.PP
For the number of calls to a function to be tallied,
the
.B \-p
option of
.IR cc (1)
must have been given when the file containing the
function was compiled.
This option to the
.I cc\^
command also arranges for the object file to include a special
profiling start-up function that calls
.IR monitor (3C)
at the beginning
and end of execution.  It is the call to
.I monitor\^
at the end of
execution that causes the
.B mon.out
file to be written.  Thus, only
programs that call
.IR exit (2)
or return from
.I main\^
will cause the
.B mon.out
file to be produced.
.SH FILES
.ta \w'mon.out  'u
mon.out	for profile
.br
a.out	for namelist
.SH "SEE ALSO"
cc(1), nm(1), exit(2), profil(2), monitor(3C).
.br
.ne 6v
.SH BUGS
There is a limit of 300 functions that may have
call counters established during program execution.  If this
limit is exceeded, other data will be overwritten and the
.B mon.out
file will be corrupted.
The number of call counters used will be reported
automatically by the
.I prof\^
command whenever the number exceeds 250.
.\"	@(#)prof.1	5.2 of 5/18/82
