.TH STLOGIN 1
.SH NAME
stlogin \- sign on to synchronous terminal
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR "stlogin [" " delay " ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I stlogin\^
command
is used at the beginning of each terminal session
and allows you to identify yourself to the system.
It is invoked by the system when a synchronous terminal requests service on a
connected synchronous line.
You can direct your synchronous terminal to request service
by first hitting the
.SM LOCAL
key and then hitting the
.SM S/R
key.
.PP
.I Stlogin\^
asks for your user name and
your password.
If you have a password,
both must be entered before the \s-1S/R\s+1 key is hit.
The password field is not displayed on the screen as you enter it.
.PP
At some installations, an option may be invoked that will require
you to enter a second ``external'' password.
This will occur only
for dial-up connections, and will be prompted by the message
``External security:''.
Both passwords are required for a successful login.
.PP
If password aging has been invoked by the super-user on your behalf,
your password may have expired.
In this case, you will be shunted 
into
.IR passwd (1)
to change it, after which you may attempt to login again.
.PP
If you do not complete the login successfully within the period specified by
.I delay\^
(e.g.,
60 seconds), you are likely to be silently disconnected.
.PP
After a successful login,
accounting files are updated,
you will be informed of the
existence (if any) of mail,
and the profiles
(i.e.,
.BR /etc/profile " and " \s-1$HOME\s+1/.profile )
(if any) are executed
(see
.IR profile (4)).
.I Stlogin\^
initializes the user and group \s-1ID\s+1s and the working directory,
then executes a command interpreter (usually
.IR sh (1))
according to specifications found in
the
.B /etc/passwd
file.
Argument 0 of the command interpreter is
.B \-
followed by the last component of the interpreter's path name.
The
.I environment\^
(see
.IR environ (5))
is initialized to:
.RS
.RI \s-1HOME\s+1= your-login-directory\^
.br
\s-1PATH\s+1=:/bin:/usr/bin
.br
.RI \s-1LOGNAME\s+1= your-login-name\^
.RE
.SH FILES
.ta \w'/usr/mail/your-name  'u
/etc/utmp	accounting
.br
/etc/wtmp	accounting
.br
.RI /usr/mail/ your-name "	mailbox for user\^"
.I your-name\^
.br
/etc/motd	message-of-the-day
.br
/etc/passwd	password file
.br
/etc/profile	system profile
.br
\s-1$HOME\s+1/\s+4.\s-4profile	personal profile
.DT
.SH SEE ALSO
mail(1),
newgrp(1),
passwd(1),
sh(1),
su(1),
passwd(4),
profile(4),
environ(5).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PD 0
.TP
.I "Login incorrect\^"
if the user name or the password is incorrect.
.TP
.IR "No shell" ", " "cannot open password file" ", " "no directory" :
consult a
.SM UNIX 
System programming counselor.
.TP
.IR "Your password has expired" ". " "Choose a new one" .
if password aging is implemented.
.PD
.\"	@(#)stlogin.1	5.2 of 5/18/82
