.TH STRIP 1 "not on PDP-11"
.SH NAME
\*pstrip \- strip symbol and line number information from a common object file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \*pstrip
.RB [ \-l ]
.RB [ \-x ]
.RB [ \-r ]
.RB [ \-s ]
.RB [ \-V ]
file-names
.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.I \*pstrip
command
strips the symbol table and line number information from
common object files,
including archives.
Once this has been done, no symbolic debugging access
will be available for that file; therefore, this command is
normally run only on production modules that have
been debugged and tested.
.PP
The amount of information stripped from the symbol table
can be controlled by using any of the 
following  options:
.PP
.TP 9
.BR \-l
Strip line number information only;
do not strip any symbol table information.
.PP
.TP 9
.B \-x
Do not strip static or external symbol information.
.PP
.TP 9
.B \-r
Reset the relocation indexes into the symbol table.
.PP
.TP 9
.B \-s
Reset the line number indexes into the symbol table (do not remove).
reset the relocation indexes into the symbol table.
.PP
.TP 9
.B \-V
Version of \*pstrip command executing.
.DT
.br
.PP
If there are any relocation entries in the object file and any symbol
table information is to be stripped,
.I \*pstrip
will complain and terminate without stripping
.I file-name
unless the
.B \-r
flag is used.
.PP
If the 
.IR strip
command is executed on a common archive file (see
.IR ar (4))
the archive symbol table will be removed.  The archive
symbol table must be restored by executing the
.IR ar (1)
command with the 
.B s
option before the archive can be
link edited by the 
.IR ld (1)
command.  
.IR Strip (1)
will instruct the user with appropriate warning messages when this
situation arises.
.PP
The purpose of this command is to reduce the file storage
overhead taken by the object file.
.SH "FILES"
/usr/tmp/strp??????
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\*pas(1),
\*pcc(1),
\*pld(1),
ar(4),
a.out(4).
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
.TP 13
\*pstrip:  name:  cannot open
.br
	if
.I name
cannot be read.
.PP
.TP 13
\*pstrip:  name:  bad magic 
.br
	if
.I name
is not an appropriate common object file.
.PP
.TP 13
\*pstrip:  name:  relocation entries present; cannot strip 
.br
	if
.I name
contains relocation entries and the
.B \-r 
flag is not used,
the symbol table information cannot be stripped.
'\" \%W\%
.\"	@(#)strip.1	5.2 of 5/18/82
