.TH VPR 1 "DEC only"
.SH NAME
vpr \- Versatec printer spooler
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vpr
[ options ] [ files ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Vpr\^
causes the named
.I files\^
to be queued for printing
on a Versatec printer.
If no names appear, the standard input is assumed;
thus
.I vpr\^
may be used as a filter.
.PP
The following options may be given (each as a separate argument
and in any order)
before any file name arguments:
.PP
.PD 0
.TP 7
.B \-c
Make a copy of the file to be sent before returning to the user.
.TP 7
.B \-r
Remove the file after sending it.
.TP 7
.B \-m
When printing is complete, report that fact by
.IR mail (1).
.TP 7
.B \-n
Do not report the completion of printing by
.IR mail (1).
This is the default option.
.TP 7
.BI \-f file
Use
.I file
as a dummy file name to report back in the mail.
(This is useful for distinguishing multiple runs, especially when
.I vpr\^
is being used as a filter).
.TP 7
.BR \-p " [ \fB\-e\fP \fIraster\fP ]"
Use the plot filter
.I vplot\^
to output files produced by
.IR graph (1G).
The
.B \-e
option will cause
a previously scan converted file
.I raster\^
to be sent to the Versatec.
.PD
.SH EXAMPLES
Two common uses are:
.RS
.PP
pr [ options ] file \|\(bv vpr
.RE
.PP
and
.PP
.RS
graph [ options ] file \|\(bv vpr \-p
.RE
.PP
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
/etc/passwd
user's identification and accounting data
.TP
/usr/spool/vpd/\(**
spool area
.TP
/usr/lib/vpd
line printer daemon
.TP
/usr/lib/vpd.pr
print filter
.TP
/usr/lib/vplot
plot filter
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
dpr(1C), lpr(1), tplot(1G).
.\"	@(#)vpr.1	5.2 of 5/18/82
