.TH SXT 7
.SH NAME
sxt \- pseudo-device driver
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Sxt\^
is a pseudo-device driver that interposes a discipline between the standard
.I tty\^
line disciplines and a real device driver.
The standard disciplines manipulate
.I virtual tty
structures (channels) declared by the
.I sxt\^ 
driver.
.I Sxt\^
acts as a discipline manipulating a 
.I real tty
structure declared by a real device driver.
The
.I sxt
driver is currently only used by the
.IR shl\^ (1)
command.
.P
Virtual ttys 
are named by inodes in the subdirectory \fB/dev/sxt\fP
and are allocated in groups of up to eight.
To allocate a group, a program should exclusively open a file with a name
of the form \fB/dev/sxt/??0\fP (channel 0) and then execute 
a SXTIOCLINK
.I ioctl\^ 
call to initiate the multiplexing.
.P
Only one channel, the 
\f2controlling\fR channel,
can receive input from the keyboard at a time; 
others attempting to read will be blocked.
.P
There are two groups of
.IR ioctl (2)
commands supported by
.IR sxt .
The first group contains the standard
.I ioctl
commands described in
.IR termio (7),
with the addition of the following:
.RS
.TP "\w'TIOCEXCL 'u"
.SM TIOCEXCL
Set
.I "exclusive use"
mode: no further opens are permitted until the file has been closed.
.TP
.SM TIOCNXCL
Reset
.I "exclusive use"
mode: further opens are once again permitted.
.RE
.P
The second group are directives to 
.I sxt\^ 
itself.
Some of these may only be executed on channel 0.
.RS
.TP "\w'SSSSSXTIOCNOTRACE    'u"
.SM SXTIOCLINK
Allocate a channel group
and multiplex the virtual ttys onto the real tty.
The argument is the number of channels to allocate.
This command may only be executed on channel 0.
Possible errors include:
.RS "\w'XTIOCNOTRACE  'u"
.TP "\w'ENOTTY 'u"
.SM EINVAL
The argument is out of range.
.TP
.SM ENOTTY
The command was not issued from a real tty.
.TP
.SM ENXIO
.I linesw
is not configured with
.IR sxt .
.TP
.SM EBUSY
An SXTIOCLINK command has already been issued for this real \fItty\fR.
.TP
.SM ENOMEM
There is no system memory available for allocating the virtual tty structures.
.TP
.SM EBADF
Channel 0 was not opened before this call.
.RE
.TP "\w'XTIOCNOTRACE 'u"
.SM SXTIOCSWTCH
Set the controlling channel.
Possible errors include:
.RS "\w'XTIOCNOTRACE  'u"
.TP "\w'ENOTTY 'u"
.SM EINVAL
An invalid channel number was given.
.TP
.SM EPERM
The command was not executed from channel 0.
.RE
.TP "\w'XTIOCNOTRACE 'u"
.SM SXTIOCWF
Cause a channel to wait until it is the controlling channel.
This command will return the error, \fIEINVAL\fR, if
an invalid channel number is given.
.TP
.SM SXTIOCUBLK
Turn off the \f3loblk\fR control flag in the
virtual tty of the indicated channel.
The error \f2EINVAL\fR will be returned if an
invalid number or channel 0 is given.
.TP
.SM SXTIOCSTAT
Get the status (blocked on input or output)
of each channel and store in the \f2sxtblock\fR
structure referenced by the argument.
The error \f2EFAULT\fR will be returned
if the structure cannot be written.
.TP
.SM SXTIOCTRACE
Enable tracing.
Tracing information is written to 
the console.
This command has no effect if tracing is not configured.
.TP
.SM SXTIOCNOTRACE
Disable tracing.
This command has no effect if tracing is not configured.
.RE
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP "\w'/usr/include/sys/xtproto.h  'u"
/dev/sxt/??[0-7]
Virtual tty devices
.TP
/usr/include/sys/sxt.h
Driver specific definitions.
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
shl(1),
stty(1),
ioctl(2),
open(2),
termio(7).
