.TH ACCTCOM 1
.SH NAME
acctcom \- search and print process accounting file(s)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B acctcom
[\|[\|options\|]\|[\|file\|]\|] . . .
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Acctcom\^
reads
.IR file ,
the standard input, or
.BR /usr/adm/pacct ,
in the form described by
.IR acct (4)
and writes selected records to the standard output.
Each record represents the execution of one process.
The output shows the
.B \s-1COMMAND\s0
.BR \s-1NAME\s0 ,
.BR \s-1USER\s0 ,
.BR \s-1TTYNAME\s0 ,
.B \s-1START\s0
.BR \s-1TIME\s0 ,
.B \s-1END\s0
.BR \s-1TIME\s0 ,
.B \s-1REAL\s0
.BR (\s-1SEC\s0) ,
.B \s-1CPU\s0
.BR (\s-1SEC\s0) ,
.B \s-1MEAN\s0
.BR \s-1SIZE\s0(\s-1K\s0) ,
and optionally,
.B \s-1F\s0
(the
.IR fork / exec
flag:
\fB1\fP for \fIfork\fP without \fIexec\fP),
.B \s-1STAT\s0
(the system exit status),
\f3\s-1HOG FACTOR\s+1\fR, \f3\s-1KCORE MIN\s+1\fR,
\f3\s-1CPU FACTOR\s+1\fR,
\f3\s-1CHARS TRNSFD\s+1\fR,
and 
\f3\s-1BLOCKS READ\s+1\fR (total blocks read and written).
.PP
The command name is prepended with a
.B #
if it was executed with
.IR super - user
privileges.
If a process is not associated with a known terminal,
a \fB?\fP is printed in the
.B \s-1TTYNAME\s0
field.
.PP
If no \fIfiles\fP are specified, and
if the standard input is associated with a terminal
or
.B /dev/null
(as is the case when using
.B &
in the shell),
.B /usr/adm/pacct
is read; otherwise, the standard input is read.
.PP
If any
.I file\^
arguments are given,
they are read in their respective order.
Each file is normally read forward, i.e., in chronological order
by process completion time.
The file
.B /usr/adm/pacct
is usually the current file to be examined;
a busy system may need several such files
of which all but the current file are found in
.BR /usr/adm/pacct\fI?\fP .
The \fIoptions\fP are:
.PP
.PD 0
.TP 12
.B \-a
Show some average statistics about the processes selected.
The statistics will be printed after the output records.
.TP
.B \-b
Read backwards, showing latest commands first.
This \fIoption\fP has no effect when the standard input is read.
.TP
.B \-f
Print the
.IR fork / exec
flag and system exit status columns in the output.
.TP
.B \-h
Instead of mean memory size,
show the fraction of total available
.SM CPU
time consumed by the process
during its execution.
This ``hog factor'' is computed as:
.sp \nPDu
.RS 10m
(total \s-1CPU\s+1\ time)/(elapsed\ time).
.RE
.sp \n(PDu
.TP
.B \-i
Print columns containing the \s-1I\s0/\s-1O\s0 counts in the output.
.TP
.B \-k
Instead of memory size, show total kcore-minutes.
.TP
.B \-m
Show mean core size (the default).
.TP
.B \-r
Show
.SM CPU
factor (user time/(system-time + user-time).
.TP
.B \-t
Show separate system and user
.SM CPU
times.
.TP
.B \-v
Exclude column headings from the output.
.TP
.BI \-l \ line\^
Show only processes belonging to terminal
.BI /dev/ line\^\fR.\fP
.TP
.BI \-u \ user\^
Show only processes belonging to
.I user\^
that may be specified by: a user \s-1ID\s0,
a login name
that is then converted to a user \s-1ID\s0,
a \fB#\fP which designates only those processes executed with
.IR super - user
privileges, or
.B ?
which designates only those processes associated with unknown
user \s-1ID\s0s.
.TP
.BI \-g \ group\^
Show only processes belonging to
.IR group .
The \fIgroup\fP may be designated by either the
group \s-1ID\s+1 or group name.
.TP
.BI \-s \ time\^
Select processes existing at or after
.IR time\^ ,
given in the format
.IR hr \|[\|:\^ min \|[\|:\^ sec \|]\|]\^.
.TP
.BI \-e \ time\^
Select processes existing at or before
.IR time\^ .
.TP
.BI \-S \ time\^
Select processes starting at or after
.IR time\^ .
.TP
.BI \-E \ time\^
Select processes ending at or before
.IR time\^ .
Using the same
.I time
for both
.B \-S
and
.B \-E
shows the processes that existed at
.IR time .
.TP
.BI \-n \ pattern\^
Show only commands matching
.I pattern\^
that may be a regular expression as in
.IR ed (1)
except that \fB+\fP means one or more occurrences.
.TP
\-q
Do not print any output records, just print the average statistics as with
the
.B \-a
option.
.TP
.BI \-o \ ofile\^
Copy selected process records in the input data format to
.IR ofile ;
supress standard output printing.
.TP
.BI \-H \ factor\^
Show only processes that exceed
.IR factor ,
where factor is the ``hog factor'' as explained in option
.BR \-h \ above.
.TP
.BI \-O \ sec\^
Show only processes with
.SM CPU
system time exceeding
.I sec
seconds.
.TP
.BI \-C \ sec\^
Show only processes with total
.SM CPU
time, system plus user, exceeding
.I sec
seconds.
.TP
.BI \-I \ chars\^
Show only processes transferring more characters than
the cut-off number given by
.IR chars .
.PD
.SH FILES
/etc/passwd
.br
/usr/adm/pacct
.br
/etc/group
.SH SEE ALSO
ps(1),
su(1).
.br
acct(2),
acct(4),
utmp(4)
in the \fI\s-1UNIX\s+1 System V Programmer Reference Manual\fR.
.br
acct(1M),
acctcms(1M),
acctcon(1M),
acctmerg(1M),
acctprc(1M),
acctsh(1M),
fwtmp(1M),
runacct(1M)
in the
.IR "\s-1UNIX\s+1 System V Administrator Reference Manual" .
.SH BUGS
.I Acctcom\^
only reports on processes that have terminated; use
.IR ps (1)
for active processes.
If
.I time\^
exceeds the present time,
then
.I time\^
is interpreted as occurring on the previous day.
.\"	@(#)acctcom.1	6.2 of 9/2/83
