.TH AR 1
.SH NAME
ar \- archive and library maintainer for portable archives
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ar
key [ posname ] afile [name] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I Ar\^
command
maintains groups of files
combined into a single archive file.
Its main use
is to create and update library files as used by the link editor.
It can be used, though, for any similar purpose.
The magic string and the file headers used by
.I ar\^
consist of printable
.SM ASCII
characters.
If an archive is composed of printable files, the entire archive is
printable.
.PP
When
.I ar\^
creates an archive, it creates headers in a format that is portable across
all machines.  The portable archive format and structure is described in
detail in
.IR ar (4).
The archive symbol table [described in
.IR ar (4)]
is used by the link editor
.RI [ ld (1)]
to effect multiple passes over libraries of
object files in an efficient manner.
An archive symbol table is only created and maintained by
.I ar\^
when there is at least one object file in the archive.
The archive symbol table is in a specially named
file which is always the first file in the archive.
This file is never mentioned or accessible to the user.
Whenever the 
.IR ar (1)
command is used to create or update the contents of such an archive, the
symbol table is rebuilt.  The
.B s
option described below will force the symbol table to be rebuilt.
.PP
.I Key\^
is an optional
.BR \- ,
followed by one character from the set
.BR drqtpmx ,
optionally concatenated with
one or more of
.BR vuaibcls .
.I Afile\^
is the archive file.
The
.I names\^
are constituent files in the archive file.
The meanings of the
.I key\^
characters are:
.TP
.B d
Delete the named files from the archive file.
.TP
.B r
Replace the named files in the archive file.
If the optional character
.B u
is used with
.BR r ,
then only those files with
dates of modification later than
the archive files are replaced.
If an optional positioning character from the set
.B abi
is used, then the
.I posname\^
argument must be present
and specifies that new files are to be placed
after
.RB ( a )
or before
.RB ( b
or
.BR i )
.IR posname .
Otherwise
new files are placed at the end.
.TP
.B q
Quickly append the named files to the end of the archive file.
Optional positioning characters are invalid.
The command does not check whether the added members
are already in the archive.
Useful only to avoid quadratic behavior when creating a large
archive piece-by-piece.
.TP
.B t
Print a table of contents of the archive file.
If no names are given, all files in the archive are tabled.
If names are given, only those files are tabled.
.TP
.B p
Print the named files in the archive.
.TP
.B m
Move the named files to the end of the archive.
If a positioning character is present,
then the
.I posname\^
argument must be present and,
as in
.BR r ,
specifies where the files are to be moved.
.TP
.B x
Extract the named files.
If no names are given, all files in the archive are
extracted.
In neither case does
.B x
alter the archive file.
.TP
.B v
Give a verbose file-by-file
description of the making of a
new archive file from the old archive and the constituent files.
When used with
.BR t ,
give a long listing of all information about the files.
When used with
.BR x ,
precede each file with a name.
.TP
.B c
Suppress the
message that is produced by default when
.I afile\^
is created.
.TP
.B l
Place temporary files in the local current working directory,
rather than in the directory specified by the environment variable
.SM
.B TMPDIR
or in the default directory
.BR /tmp .
.TP
.B s
Force the regeneration of the archive symbol table even if 
.IR ar (1) 
is not invoked with a command which will modify the archive contents.
This command is useful to restore the archive symbol table after the
.IR strip (1)
command has been used on the archive.
.SH FILES
/tmp/ar\(**	temporaries
.SH SEE ALSO
arcv(1), convert(1), ld(1),
lorder(1), strip(1).
.br
tmpnam(3S),
a.out(4),
ar(4) in the
\f2\s-1UNIX\s+1 System V Programmer Reference Manual\fR.
.SH NOTES
This archive format is new to this release.
The
.IR convert (1)
command can be used to change an older archive file into
an archive file that is recognized by this
.I ar\^
command.
.SH BUGS
If the same file is mentioned twice in an argument list,
it may be put in the archive twice.
.\"	@(#)ar.1	6.2 of 9/2/83
