.TH AS 1
.SH NAME
\*pas \- common assembler
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR \*pas
.if '\*p'm32' .BR \-v type
.RB "[" \-o " objfile]"
.if '\*p'x86' .RB \-x
.if '\*p'3b' .RB "[" \-Q "]"
.RB "[" \-n "]"
.RB "[" \-m "]"
.RB "[" \-R "]"
.RB "[" \-r "]"
.RB "[" \-[bwd] "]"
.RB "[" \-V "]"
file-name
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I \*pas
command
assembles the named file.
.if '\*p'b16' \{\
The output file is executable if no errors
occurred during the assembly, transfer vectors were not used,
and there are no unresolved external references.\}
The following flags
may be specified in any order:
.if '\*p'm32' \{\
.TP \w'\fB\-o\fP\ \fIobjfile\fP\ \ 'u
.BI \-v " type"
type is either an 'x' indicating the original
.B \*p
assembler or an 'a' indicating the
.B \*pa
assembler.
\}
.TP \w'\fB\-o\fP\ \fIobjfile\fP\ \ 'u
.BI \-o " objfile"
Put the output of the assembly in
.IR objfile .
By default, the output file name is formed by
removing the
.B .s
suffix, if there is one, from the input file name
and appending a
.B .o
suffix.
.if '\*p'x86' \{\
.TP
.B \-x
This
flag is
.I required
for all x86 files.
\}
.if '\*p'3b' \{
.TP
.B \-Q
Warn the user if a transfer vector operand is used
in any context other than a "call" instruction.
\}
.TP
.B \-n
Turn off long/short address optimization.
By default, address optimization takes place.
.TP
.B \-m
Run the
.I m4
macro pre-processor
on the input to the assembler.
.TP
.B \-R
Remove (unlink) the input file after assembly
is completed.
.TP
.B \-r
Place all assembled data
(normally placed in the \f3.data\fR section)
into the \f3.text\fR section
This option effectively disables the
.B .data
pseudo operation.
This option is off by default.
.TP
.B \-[bwd]
Create byte
.RB ( b "),"
halfword
.RB ( w )
or double
.RB ( d )
displacements for undefined symbols
(An undefined symbol is a reference to a symbol
whose definition is external
to the input file
or a forward reference.)
The default value for this option is double
.RB ( d )
displacements.
.TP
.B \-V
Write the version number of the assembler being run
on the standard error output.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\*pld(1),
m4(1),
\*pnm(1),
\*pstrip(1).
.br.
a.out(4) in the
\f2\s-1UNIX\s+1 System V Programmer Reference Manual\fR.
.SH WARNING
.if '\*p'3b' \{
.P
If the input file does not contain a
.B .file
assembler directive and the
.B \-m
flag was not specified,
the file name given by the assembler when an
error occurs is one of the temporary files
.RB ( /usr/tmp/\*pas \s-1XXXXXX\s+1)
\}
.P
If the
.B \-m
(\f2m4
macro pre-processor invocation) option is used,
keywords for
.I m4
.RI "(see " m4 (1))
cannot be used as symbols (variables, functions, labels)
in the input file since
.I m4
cannot determine which are assembler symbols and
which are real
.I m4
macros.
.P
Use the
.B \-b
or
.B \-w
option only when undefined symbols are known to refer to locations
representable by the specified default displacement.
Use of either option when assembling a file containing a reference
to a symbol that is to be resolved by the loader can lead to
unpredictable results,
since the loader may be unable to place the address of the symbol
into the space provided.
.SH BUGS
Arithmetic expressions may only have
one non-absolute symbol per expression.
'\" \%W\%
.\"	@(#)as.1	6.2 of 9/2/83
