.TH AT 1
.SH NAME
at, batch \- execute commands at a later time
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B at
.I time
[
.I date
]
[
.B +
.I increment
]
.br
.B at
.IR \-r job ...
.br
.B at
.IR \-l [ job ... ]
.P
.B batch
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIAt\fP and \fIbatch\fP read commands from standard input to be
executed at a later time.
\fIAt\fP allows you to specify when the commands should be executed,
while 
jobs queued with \fIbatch\fP will execute
when system load level permits.
.I At
\fB\-r\fR removes jobs previously scheduled with
.I at.
The 
\fB\-l\fR
option reports all jobs scheduled for the invoking user.
.P
Standard output and standard error output are
mailed to the user unless they are redirected elsewhere.
The shell environment variables, current directory,
umask, and ulimit are retained when the commands
are executed.
Open file descriptors, traps, and priority are lost.
.P
Users are permitted to use
.I at
if their name appears in the file
.BI /usr/lib/cron/at.allow .
If that file does not exist,
the file
.B /usr/lib/cron/at.deny
is checked to determine if the user
should be denied access to
.I at.
If neither file exists, only root is allowed to
submit a job.
If either file is \f3at.deny\fR, global usage is permitted.
The allow/deny files consist of one user name
per line.
.P
The
.I time
may be specified as 1, 2, or 4 digits.
One and two digit numbers are taken to be hours,
four digits
to be hours and minutes.
The time may alternately be specified as two numbers
separated by a colon, meaning
.IR hour : minute .
A suffix
.B am
or
.B pm
may be appended;
otherwise a 24\-hour clock time is understood.
The suffix
.B zulu
may be used to indicate GMT.
The special names
.BR noon ,
.BR midnight ,
.BR now ,
and
.B next
are also recognized.
.P
An optional \fIdate\fP may be specified as either
a month name followed by a day number
(and possibly year number preceded by an optional comma)
or
a day of the week (fully spelled or abbreviated to three characters).
Two special ``days'',
.B today
and
.B tomorrow
are recognized.
If no
.I date
is given,
.B today
is assumed if the given hour is greater than the current hour
and
.B tomorrow
is assumed if it is less.
If the given month is less than the current month (and no year is
given), next year is assumed.
.P
The optional
.I increment
is simply
a number
suffixed by one of the following:
.BR minutes ,
.BR hours ,
.BR days ,
.BR weeks ,
.BR months ,
or
.BR years .
(The singular form is also accepted.)
.P
Thus legitimate commands include:
.P
.RS 10
at 0815am Jan 24
.br
at 8:15am Jan 24
.br
at now + 1 day
.br
at 5 pm Friday
.RE
.P
\fIAt\fP and \fIbatch\fP write the job number and schedule time to standard
error.
.P
.I Batch
submits a batch job.
It is almost equivalent to ``at~now'', but not quite.
For one, it goes into a different queue.
For another, ``at~now'' will respond with the
error message too~late.
.P
.I At
\f3\-r\fR
removes jobs previously scheduled by
.I at
or
.IR batch .
The job number is the number given to you previously by the
.I at
or
.I batch
command.
You can also get job numbers by typing
.I at
\f3\-l\fR.
You can only remove your own jobs unless you are the super-user.
.SH EXAMPLES
The \fIat\fP and \fIbatch\fP commands read
from standard input the commands to be executed
at a later time.
.IR Sh (1)
provides different ways of specifying standard input.
Within your commands, it may be useful to redirect standard output.
.sp
This sequence can be used at a terminal:
.nf
.in +1i
batch
nroff \fIfilename\fP >\fIoutfile\fP
<control-D> (hold down 'control' and depress 'D')
.in -1i
.sp
.fi
This sequence, which demonstrates redirecting standard
error to a pipe, is useful in a shell procedure (the sequence of
output redirection specifications is significant):
.nf
.in +1i
batch <<!
nroff \fIfilename\fP 2>&1 >\fIoutfile\fP | mail \fIloginid\fP
!
.in -1i
.sp
.fi
To have a job reschedule itself, invoke \fIat\fP from within the
shell procedure, by including code similar to the following within the shell file:
.nf
.in +1i
echo "sh \fIshellfile\fP" | at 1900 thursday next week
.in -1i
.fi
.sp
.SH FILES
/usr/lib/cron - 		main cron directory
.br
/usr/lib/cron/at.allow -	list of allowed users 
.br
/usr/lib/cron/at.deny - 	list of denied users 
.br
/usr/lib/cron/queue - 	scheduling information
.br
/usr/spool/cron/atjobs -	spool area
.SH SEE ALSO
kill(1), mail(1), nice(1), ps(1), sh(1).
.br
cron(1M) in the
\f2\s-1UNIX\s+1 System V Administrator Reference Manual\fR.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Complains about various syntax errors and times out of range.
.\"	@(#)at.1	6.2 of 9/2/83
