.TH CAT 1
.SH NAME
cat \- concatenate and print files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cat
[
.B \-u
]
[
.B \-s
]
[
.B \-v
.RB [ \-t ]
.RB [ \-e ]
]
file .\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Cat\^
reads each
.I file\^
in sequence
and writes it on the standard output.
Thus:
.PP
.RS
cat file
.RE
.PP
prints the file, and:
.PP
.RS
cat file1 file2 >file3
.RE
.PP
concatenates the first two files and places the result on the third.
.PP
If no input file is given,
or if the argument
.B \-
is encountered,
.I cat\^
reads from the standard
input file.
Output is buffered unless the
.B \-u
option is specified.
The
.B \-s
option makes
.I cat\^
silent about non-existent files.
.PP
The
.B \-v
option causes non-printing characters
(with the exception of tabs, new-lines
and form-feeds)
to be printed visibly.
Control characters are printed
.BI ^ X
.RI (control- x );
the DEL character (octal 0177) is printed
.BR ^? .
Non-ASCII characters (with the high bit set) are printed as
.BI M- x,
where
.I x
is the character specified by the seven low order bits.
.PP
When used with the
.B \-v
option,
.B \-t
causes tabs to be printed as
.BR ^I 's,
and
.B \-e
causes a
.B $
character to be printed at the end of each line
(prior to the new-line).
The
.B \-t
and
.B \-e
options are ignored if the
.B \-v
option is not specified.
.SH WARNING
Command formats such as
.RS
cat file1 file2 >file1
.RE
will cause
the original data in \fIfile1\fP to be lost;
therefore, take care when using shell special characters.
.SH SEE ALSO
cp(1), pg(1), pr(1).
.\"	@(#)cat.1	6.3 of 9/2/83
