.TH CDC 1
.SH NAME
cdc \- change the delta commentary of an \s-1SCCS\s+1 delta
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cdc
\fB\-r\fR\c
.SM SID
.SP m [mrlist]]
.SP y [comment]]
files
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Cdc\^
changes the
.IR "delta commentary" ,
for the \*(I) specified by the
.B \-r
keyletter,
of each
named \*(S) file.
.PP
.I "Delta commentary\^"
is defined to be the Modification Request (\*(M)) and comment
information normally specified via the
.IR delta (1)
command
.RB ( \-m
and
.B \-y
keyletters).
.PP
If a directory is named,
.I cdc\^
behaves as though each file in the directory were
specified as a named file,
except that non-\*(S) files
(last component of the path name does not begin with \fBs.\fR)
and unreadable files
are silently ignored.
If a name of
.B \-
is given, the standard input is read (see \%\*(W));
each line of the standard input is taken to be the name of an \*(S) file
to be processed.
.PP
Arguments to
.IR cdc ,
which may appear in any order, consist of
.I keyletter\^
arguments and file names.
.PP
All the described
.I keyletter\^
arguments apply independently to each named file:
.A2 r \s-1SID\s+1 Used
to specify the
.IR S \s-1CCS\s+1
.IR ID entification
(\*(I))
string
of a delta for
which the delta commentary is to be changed.
.A1 m mrlist If
the \*(S) file has the
.B v
flag set
[see
.IR admin (1)]
then a
list of \*(M) numbers to be added and/or deleted in
the delta commentary of
the \*(I) specified by the
.B \-r
keyletter
.I may\^
be supplied.
A null \*(M) list has no effect.
.C1 \& \*(M)
entries are added to the list of \*(M)s in the same manner as that of
.IR delta (1).
In order to delete an \*(M), precede the \*(M) number
with the character \fB!\fR (see \*(X)).
If the \*(M) to be deleted is currently in the list of \*(M)s, it is
removed
and changed into a ``comment'' line.
A list of all deleted \*(M)s is placed in the comment section
of the delta commentary and preceded by a comment line stating
that they were deleted.
.C1 \& If
.B \-m
is not used and the standard input is a terminal, the prompt
.B \s-1MR\s+1s?
is issued on the standard output before the standard input
is read; if the standard input is not a terminal, no prompt is issued.
The \fB\s-1MR\s+1s?\fR prompt always precedes the \fBcomments?\fR prompt
(see
.B \-y
keyletter).
.C1 \& \*(M)s
in a list are separated by blanks and/or tab characters.
An unescaped new-line character terminates the \*(M) list.
.C1 \& Note
that if the
.B v
flag has a value
[see
.IR admin (1)],
it is taken to be the name of a program (or shell procedure) which validates
the correctness of the \*(M) numbers.
If a non-zero exit status is returned from the \*(M) number validation program,
.I cdc\^
terminates
and the delta commentary remains unchanged.
.A1 y comment Arbitrary
text used to replace the \fIcomment\^\fR(s) already existing
for the delta specified by the
.B \-r
keyletter.
The previous comments are kept and preceded by a comment
line stating that they were changed.
A null \fIcomment\^\fR has no effect.
.C1 \& If
.B \-y
is not specified and the standard input is a terminal, the
prompt \fBcomments?\fR is issued on the standard output before
the standard input is read;
if the standard input is not a terminal, no prompt is issued.
An unescaped new-line character terminates the \fIcomment\^\fR text.
.i0
.PP
The exact permissions necessary to modify the \*(S) file
are documented in the
.IR "Source Code Control System User Guide" .
Simply stated,
they are either (1)
if you made the delta, you can change its delta commentary;
or (2)
if you own the file and directory you can modify the delta commentary.
.SH EXAMPLES
.RS 5n
cdc \-r1\fB.\fP6 \-m"bl78-12345 !bl77-54321 bl79-00001" \-ytrouble s\fB.\fPfile
.RE
.PP
adds bl78-12345 and bl79-00001 to the \*(M) list, removes bl77-54321
from the \*(M) list, and adds the comment \fBtrouble\fR to delta 1\fB.\fR6
of s\fB.\fRfile.
.PP
.RS 5n
cdc \-r1\fB.\fR6 s\fB.\fRfile
.br
\s-1MR\s+1s? !bl77-54321 bl78-12345 bl79-00001
.br
comments? trouble
.RE
.PP
does the same thing.
.DT
.SH WARNINGS
If \*(S) file names are supplied to the
.I cdc\^
command via the standard input
(\fB\-\fR on the command line),
then the
.B \-m
and
.B \-y
keyletters must also be used.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 10
x-file
[see
.IR delta (1)]
.TP
z-file
[see
.IR delta (1)]
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
admin(1),
delta(1),
get(1),
help(1),
prs(1).
.br
sccsfile(4) in the \f2\s-1UNIX\s+1 System V Programmer Reference Manual\fR.
.br
.sp
.I "Source Code Control System User Guide\^"
in the
.IR "\s-1UNIX\s+1 System V Support Tools Guide" .
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Use
.IR help (1)
for explanations.
.tr ~~
.\"	@(#)cdc.1	6.2 of 9/2/83
