.TH CP 1
.SH NAME
cp, ln, mv \- copy, link or move files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cp
file1 [ file2 ...] target
.br
.B ln
[ 
.B \-f 
] file1 [ file2 ...] target
.br
.B mv
[ 
.B \-f 
] file1 [ file2 ...] target
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I File1\^
is copied (linked, moved) to
.IR target .
Under no circumstance can
.I file1\^
and
.I target\^
be the same (take care when using
.IR sh (1)
metacharacters).
If
.I target\^
is a directory, then one or more
files are copied (linked, moved) to that directory.
If 
.I target\^
is a file, its contents are destroyed.
.PP
If
.I mv\^
or
.I ln\^
determines that the mode of
.I target\^
forbids writing, it will
print the mode [see
.IR chmod (2)],
ask for a response,
and read the standard input for one line;
if the line begins with
.BR y ,
the 
.I mv\^
or
.I ln\^
occurs, if permissable; if not, the command exits.
No questions are asked
and the
.I mv\^
or
.I ln\^
is done
when the
.B \-f
option is used
or if the standard input is not a terminal.
.PP
Only
.I mv\^
will allow
.I file1\^
to be a directory, in which case the directory rename
will occur only if the two directories
have the same parent;
.I file1\^
is renamed 
.I target\^.
If 
.I file1\^ 
is a file and
.I target\^
is a link to another file with links,
the other links remain and 
.I target\^
becomes a new file.
.PP
When using 
.IR cp ,
if 
.I target\^
is not a file,
a new file is created 
which has the same mode as  
.I file1\^
except that the sticky bit 
is not set
unless you are super-user;
the owner and group of 
.I target\^
are those of the user.
If 
.I target\^
is a file, 
copying a file into 
.I target\^
does not change its 
mode, owner, nor group.
The last modification time
of
.I target\^
(and last access time,
if 
.I target\^
did not exist)
and the last access time
of 
.I file1\^
are set to the time the copy was made.
If 
.I target\^
is a link to a file,
all links remain
and the file is changed.
.SH SEE ALSO
cpio(1),
rm(1).
.br
chmod(2) in the \f2\s-1UNIX\s+1 System V Programmer Reference Manual\fR.
.SH BUGS
If
.I file1\^
and
.I target\^
lie on different file systems,
.I mv\^
must copy the file and delete the original.
In this case any
linking relationship with other files
is lost.
.PP
.I Ln\^
will not link across file systems.
