.TH CPP 1
.SH NAME
cpp \- the C language preprocessor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /lib/cpp [
option ...
.B ]
.B [
ifile
.B [
ofile
.B ] ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I Cpp\^
is the C language preprocessor which is invoked as the
first pass of any C compilation using the
.IR cc (1)
command.  Thus the output of
.I cpp\^
is designed to be in a form acceptable as input
to the next pass of the C compiler.
As the C language evolves,
.I cpp\^
and the rest of the C compilation package will be
modified to follow these changes.
Therefore, the use of
.I cpp\^
other than in this framework is not suggested.
The preferred way to invoke
.I cpp\^
is through the
.IR cc (1)
command, since the functionality of
.I cpp\^
may someday be moved elsewhere.  See
.IR m4 (1)
for a general macro processor.
.PP
.I Cpp\^
optionally accepts two file names as arguments.
.I Ifile\^
and
.I ofile\^
are respectively the input and output
for the preprocessor.  They default to standard input
and standard output if not supplied.
.PP
The following \fIoptions\fP to
.I cpp\^
are recognized:
.TP
.B \-P
Preprocess the input without producing the line control
information used by the next pass of the C compiler.
.TP
.B \-C
By default,
.I cpp\^
strips C-style comments.  If the
.B \-C
option is specified, all comments (except those found on
.I cpp
directive lines)
are passed along.
.TP
.BI \-U name\^
Remove any initial definition of
.IR name ,
where
.I name\^
is a reserved symbol
that is predefined by the particular preprocessor.
The current list of these possibly reserved symbols includes:
.PD 0
.ne 3v
.RS 10
.TP 23
operating system:
ibm, gcos, os, tss, unix
.TP
hardware:
interdata, pdp11, u370, u3b, u3b5, vax
.TP
\s-1UNIX\s+1 system variant:
.SM RES\*S,
.SM RT
.TP
\fIlint\fR(1):
lint
.RE
.PD
.TP
.BI \-D name\^
.PD 0
.TP
.BI \-D name=def\^
Define
.I name\^
as if by a
.B #define
directive.  If no
.I =def\^
is given,
.I name\^
is defined as 1.
The
.B \-D
option has lower precedence than the
.B \-U
option.
That is, if the same name is used in both a
.B \-U
option and a
.B \-D
option, the name will be undefined regardless of the order of the options.
.PD
.TP
.B \-T
The
.B \-T
option forces
.I cpp\^
to use only the first eight characters for distinguishing 
different preprocessor names.
This behavior is the same as previous preprocessors with respect
to the length of names and is included for backward compatability.
.TP
.BI \-I dir\^
Change the algorithm for searching for
.B #include
files
whose names do not begin with \f3/\fP
to look in
.I dir\^
before looking in the directories on the standard list.
Thus,
.B #include
files whose names are enclosed in \f3"\|"\fP
will be searched for
first in the directory of the
file with the
.B #include
line,
then in directories named in 
.B \-I
options,
and last in directories on a standard list.
For
.B #include
files whose names are enclosed in
.BR <> ,
the directory of the
file with the
.B #include
line is not searched.
.PP
Two special names are understood by
.IR cpp .
The name
.B _\^\^_\s-1LINE\s+1_\^\^_
is defined as the current line number (as a decimal integer) as known by
.IR cpp ,
and
.B _\^\^_\s-1FILE\s+1_\^\^_
is defined as the current file name (as a C string) as known by
.I cpp.\^
They can be used anywhere (including in macros) just as any
other defined name.
.PP
All
.I cpp\^
directives start with lines begun by
.BR # .
Any number of blanks and tabs are allowed between the
.B #
and the directive.
The directives are:
.TP
.BI #define " name" " " token-string
Replace subsequent instances of
.I name\^
with
.IR token-string .
.TP
\fB#define\fI name\fB(\fI arg\fB, ...,\fI arg\fB )\fI token-string\fR
Notice that there can be no space between
.I name
and the
.BR ( .
Replace subsequent instances of
.I name
followed by a
.BR ( ,
a list of comma-separated set of tokens, and a
.B )
by
.IR token-string ,
where each occurrence of an
.I arg
in the
.I token-string
is replaced by the corresponding set of tokens in the comma-separated list.
When a macro with arguments is expanded, the arguments are placed
into the expanded
.I token-string
unchanged.
After the entire
.I token-string
has been expanded,
.I cpp
re-starts its scan for names to expand at the beginning of newly
created
.IR token-string .
.TP
.BI #undef " name"
Cause the definition of
.I name
(if any) to be forgotten from now on.
.TP
\fB#include\fI "filename"
.PD 0
.TP
.BI #include " " < filename >
Include at this point the contents of
.I filename
(which will then be run through
.IR cpp ).
When the
.BI < filename >
notation is used,
.I filename
is only searched for in the standard places.
See the
.B \-I
option above for more detail.
.PD
.TP
\fB#line\fI integer-constant "filename"
Causes
.I cpp
to generate line control information for the next pass of the
C compiler.
.I Integer-constant
is the line number of the next line
and
.I filename
is the file where it comes from.
If \fI"filename"\fR is not given, the current file name is unchanged.
.TP
.B #endif
.br
Ends a section of lines begun by a test directive
.RB ( #if ,
.BR #ifdef ,
or
.BR #ifndef ).
Each test directive must have a matching
.BR #endif .
.TP
.BI #ifdef " name"
The lines following will appear in the output if and only if
.I name
has been the subject of a previous
.B #define
without being the subject of an intervening
.BR #undef .
.TP
.BI #ifndef " name"
The lines following will not appear in the output if and only if
.I name
has been the subject of a previous
.B #define
without being the subject of an intervening
.BR #undef .
.TP
.BI #if " constant-expression"
Lines following will appear in the output if and only if the
.I constant-expression
evaluates to non-zero.
All binary non-assignment C operators, the
.B ?:
operator, the unary
.BR \(mi ,
.BR ! ,
and
.B ~
operators are all legal in
.IR constant-expression .
The precedence of the operators is the same as defined by the C language.
There is also a unary operator
.BR defined ,
which can be used in
.I constant-expression
in these two forms:
.BI defined " " ( " name " )
or
.BI defined " name" .
This allows the utility of
.BR #ifdef " and " #ifndef
in a
.B #if
directive.
Only these operators, integer constants, and names which
are known by
.I cpp
should be used in
.IR constant-expression .
In particular, the
.B sizeof
operator is not available.
.bp
.TP
.B #else
Reverses the notion of the test directive which
matches this directive.  So if lines previous to
this directive are ignored, the following lines
will appear in the output.
And vice versa.
.PP
The test directives and the possible
.B #else
directives can be nested.
.SH FILES
.TP 1.5i
/usr/include
standard directory for
.B #include
files
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
cc(1), m4(1).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
The error messages produced by
.I cpp\^
are intended to be self-explanatory.  The line number and filename
where the error occurred are printed along with the diagnostic.
.SH NOTES
When new-line characters were found in argument lists for macros
to be expanded, previous versions of
.I cpp\^
put out the new-lines as they were found and expanded.
The current version of
.I cpp\^
replaces these new-lines with blanks to alleviate problems that the
previous versions had when this occurred.
.\"	@(#)cpp.1	6.2 of 9/2/83
