'\" t
.TH CRONTAB 1
.SH NAME
crontab - user crontab file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B crontab
[file] 
.br
.B crontab
\fB-r\fR
.br
.B crontab
\fB-l\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Crontab
copies the specified file,
or standard input if no file is specified,
into a directory that holds all users' crontabs.
The \-r option removes a user's crontab from the crontab directory.
\f2Crontab\fP \-l will list the crontab file for the
invoking user.
.PP
A user is permitted to use
.I crontab
if their name appears in the file
.B /usr/lib/cron/cron.allow.
If that file does not exist,
the file
.B /usr/lib/cron/cron.deny
is checked to determine if the user
should be denied access to
.I crontab.
If neither file exists, only root is allowed to
submit a job.
If either file is \f3at.deny\fR, global usage is permitted.
The allow/deny files consist of one user name
per line.
.PP
A crontab file
consists of lines of six fields each.
The fields are separated by spaces or tabs.
The first five are integer patterns that
specify the following:
.sp
.br
	minute (0\-59),
.br
	hour (0\-23),
.br
	day of the month (1\-31),
.br
	month of the year (1\-12),
.br
	day of the week (0\-6 with 0=Sunday).
.sp
Each of these patterns may
be either an asterisk  (meaning all legal values),
or a list of elements separated by commas.
An element is either a number, or
two numbers separated by a minus sign
(meaning an inclusive range).
Note that the specification of days
may be made by two fields
(day of the month and day of the week).
If both are specified as a list of elements, 
both are adhered to.
For example, 0 0 1,15 \(** 1 would run a command on the
first and fifteenth of each month, as well as on every Monday.
To specify days by only one field,
the other field should be set to \(**
(for example, 0 0 \(** \(** 1 would run a command only on Mondays).
.PP
The sixth field of a line in a crontab
file is a string that is executed by the shell 
at the specified times.
A percent character
in this field (unless escaped by 
\fB\e\fP)
is translated to a new-line
character.
Only the first line (up to a % or end of line)
of the command field is executed by the shell.
The other lines are made available to the
command as standard input.
.PP
The shell is invoked from your 
.B \s-1$HOME\s+1 
directory with an 
.BR arg0 " of " sh.
Users who desire to have their \fI.profile\fP executed must
explicitly do so in the crontab file.
.I Cron
supplies a default environment for every shell, defining
.BR \s-1HOME\s+1 ", " \s-1LOGNAME\s+1 ", " \s-1SHELL\s+1(=/bin/sh) ,
and 
.BR PATH(=:/bin:/usr/bin:/usr/lbin) .
.PP
.IR NOTE :
Users should remember to redirect the standard output 
and standard error of their commands!
If this is not done, any generated output or errors
will be mailed to the user.
.SH FILES
.TS
center;
l l.
/usr/lib/cron 	main cron directory
.br
/usr/spool/cron/crontabs 	spool area
.br
/usr/lib/cron/log 	accounting information
.br
/usr/lib/cron/cron.allow 	list of allowed users
.br
/usr/lib/cron/cron.deny 	list of denied users
.TE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
sh(1).
.br
cron(1M) in the \f2\s-1UNIX\s+1 System V Administrator Reference Manual\fR.
.\"	%W% of %G%
