.TH CSPLIT 1
.bd S B 3
.SH NAME
csplit \- context split
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B csplit
.RB [ \-s ]
.RB [ \-k ]
.RB [ \-f \ prefix ]
file arg1 [\s+3.\|.\|.\s0 argn]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Csplit\^
reads
.I file\^
and separates it into n+1 sections,
defined by the arguments
.IR arg1 "\s+3.\|.\|.\s0"
.IR argn .
By default the sections are placed in
xx00 \s+3.\|.\|.\s0
.RI xx n\^
.RI ( n\^
may not be greater than 99).
These sections get the following pieces of
.IR file :
.RS 6
.TP 6
00:
From the start of
.I file\^
up to (but not including) the line referenced by
.IR arg1 .
.PD 0
.TP 6
01:
From the line referenced by
.I arg1\^
up to the line referenced by
.IR arg2 .
.RS 6
.B "."
.br
.B "."
.br
.B "."
.RE
.TP 6
n+1:
From the line referenced by
.I argn\^
to the end of
.IR file .
.PD
.RE
.PP
If the
.I file
argument is a
.B \-
then standard input is used.
.PP
The options to
.I csplit\^
are:
.RS 6
.TP "\w'\-t\ prefix\ \ 'u"
.B \-s
.I Csplit\^
normally prints the character counts for each file created.
If the 
.B \-s
option is present,
.I csplit\^
suppresses the printing of all character counts.
.TP
.B \-k
.I Csplit\^
normally removes created files if an error occurs.
If the
.B \-k
option is present,
.I csplit\^
leaves previously created files intact.
.TP
.BI \-f \ prefix
If the
.B \-f
option is used, the created files are named
.IB prefix 00
\&\s+3.\|.\|.\s0\&
.IR prefixn .
The default is \fBxx00\fP \s+3.\|.\|.\s0
.BI xx n\fR.\fP
.RE
.PP
The arguments
.RI ( arg1 " \s+3.\|.\|.\s-3"
.IR argn )
to
.I csplit\^
can be a combination of the following:
.RS 6
.TP 8
.RI / rexp /
A file is to be created for the section from the current line
up to (but not including) the line containing the regular expression
.IR rexp .
The current line becomes the line containing
.IR rexp .
This argument may be followed by an optional
.BR + " or"
.B \-
some number of lines
(e.g., \fB/Page/\-5\fP).
.TP 8
.RI % rexp %
This argument is the same as
.RI / rexp /,
except that no file is created for the section.
.TP 8
.I lnno\^
A file is to be created from the current line up to (but not including)
.IR lnno .
The current line becomes
.IR lnno .
.TP 8
.RI { num }
Repeat argument.
This argument may follow any of the above arguments.
If it follows a
.I rexp\^
type argument, that argument is applied
.I num\^
more times.
If it follows
.IR lnno ,
the file will be split every
.I lnno\^
lines
.RI ( num\^
times)
from that point.
.RE
.PP
Enclose all
.I rexp\^
type arguments that contain blanks or other characters meaningful to
the Shell in the appropriate quotes.
Regular expressions may not contain embedded new-lines.
.I Csplit\^
does not affect the original file;
it is the users responsibility to remove it.
.bp
.SH EXAMPLES
.RS 5n
.nf
	csplit \-f cobol file\ \ \(fm/procedure division/\(fm\ \ /par5./\ \ /par16./
.fi
.RE
.sp
This example creates four files, \fBcobol00\fP \s+3.\|.\|.\s0 \fBcobol03\fP.
After editing the ``split'' files, they can be recombined as follows:
.sp
.RS 10n
.nf
	cat cobol0[0\-3] > file
.fi
.RE
.sp
Note that this example overwrites the original file.
.sp
.RS 5n
.nf
	csplit \-k file\ \ 100\ \ {99}
.fi
.RE
.sp
This example would split the file at every 100 lines, up to
10,000 lines.
The
.B \-k
option causes the created files to be retained if there
are less than 10,000 lines; however, an error message would
still be printed.
.sp
.RS 5n
.nf
csplit \-k prog.c\ \ \(fm%main(%\(fm\ \ \(fm/^}/+1\(fm\ \ {20}
.fi
.RE
.sp
Assuming that
.B prog.c
follows the normal
.B C
coding convention of
ending routines with a
.B }
at the beginning of the line,
this example will create a file containing each separate
.B C
routine (up to 21) in
.BR prog.c .
.SH SEE ALSO
ed(1), sh(1).
.br
regexp(5) in the
\f2\s-1UNIX\s+1 System V Programmer Reference Manual\fR.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Self explanatory except for:
.RS 5n
.nf
	arg \- out of range
.fi
.RE
which means that the given argument did not reference a line
between the current position and the end of the file.
.\"	@(#)csplit.1	6.2 of 9/2/83
