.TH CU 1C
.SH NAME
cu \- call another \s-1UNIX\s+1 system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cu
.RB [\| \-s speed\|]
.RB [\| \-l line\|]
.RB [\| \-h \|]
.RB [\| \-t \|]
.RB [\| \-d \|]
.RB [\| \-m \|]
.RB [\| \-o \|]
.RB [\| \-e \|]
.RB [\| \-n \|]
.B telno \(bv
.B systemname \(bv \|
.B dir
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Cu\^
calls up another \s-1UNIX\s+1 system,
a terminal,
or possibly a non-\s-1UNIX\s+1 system.
It manages an interactive conversation with possible
transfers of
.SM ASCII
files.
.TP
.B cu
accepts the following options and arguments.
.TP
.B \-sspeed
Specifies the transmission speed (110, 150, 300, 600, 1200, 4800, 9600);
300 is the default value. Most modems are either 300 or 1200
baud. Directly connected lines may be set to a speed higher than 1200
baud.
.TP
.B \-lline
Specifies a device name to use as the communication line. This can be 
used to override searching for the first available line having the right
speed. When the \f3\-l\f1 option is used without the -s option, the speed of a line is taken from the file
\fB/usr/lib/uucp/L\f3\-d\f1evices\fR. When the \f3\-l\f1 and \f3\-s\f1 options are used simultaneously,
cu will search the L-devices file to check if the requested speed for the
requested line is available. If so, the connection will be made at the
requested speed; otherwise an error message will be printed and the call
will not be made. 
The specified device is generally a directly connected asynchronous line
(e.g., \fB/dev/ttyab\fR), in this case a phone number is not required but the 
string dir may be use to specify a null acu. If the specified device
is associated with an auto dialer, a phone number must be 
provided. 
.TP
.B \-h
Emulates local echo, supporting calls to other computer systems
which expect terminals to be set to half-duplex mode.
.TP
.B \-t
Used when dialing an ASCII terminal which has been set to auto answer.
Appropriate mapping of carriage-return to carriage-return-line-feed
pairs is set.
.TP
.B \-d
Causes diagnostic traces to be printed.
.TP
.B \-e
Designates that even parity is to be generated for data sent to the 
remote.
.TP
.B \-o
Designates that odd parity is to be generated for data sent to the remote.
.TP
.B \-m
Designates a direct line which has modem control.
.TP
.B \-n
Will request the phone number to be dialed from the user rather than 
taking it from the command line. 
.TP
.B \ telno
When using an automatic dialer the argument
is the telephone number with equal signs for secondary dial tone or minus
signs for delays, at appropriate places.
.TP
.B \ systemname
A
.B uucp
system name may be used rather than a phone number; in this case,
cu will obtain an appropriate direct line or 
phone number from
.B \%/usr/lib/uucp/L.sys 
(the appropriate baud rate is also read along with phone numbers). 
Cu will try each phone number or direct line for
.B systemname 
in the L.sys file until a connection is made or all the entries are tried.
.TP
.B \ dir
Using 
.B dir
insures that cu will use the line specified by the \f3\-l\f1 option.
.P
After making the connection,
.I cu\^
runs as two processes:
the
.I transmit\^
process reads data from the standard input and,
except for lines beginning with
.BR ~ ,
passes it to the remote system;
the
.I receive\^
process accepts data from the remote system and,
except for lines beginning with
.BR ~ ,
passes it to the standard output.
Normally, an automatic \s-1DC\s+1\&3/\s-1DC\s+1\&1 protocol
is used to control input from the remote so the buffer is
not overrun.
Lines beginning with \f3~\fP have special meanings.
.PP
The
.I transmit\^
process interprets the following:
.TP 20
.B ~.
terminate the conversation.
.TP
.B ~!
escape to an interactive shell on the local system.
.TP
.BI ~! cmd\|.\|.\|.
run
.I cmd\^
on the local system
(via
.BR "sh \-c" ).
.TP
.BI ~$ cmd\|.\|.\|.
run
.I cmd\^
locally and send its output
to the remote system.
.TP
\&\f3~%cd\fP
change the directory on the local system.
.B \s-1NOTE\s+1:
\&\f3~!cd
will cause the command to be run by a sub-shell;
probably not what was intended.
.TP
\&\f3~%take\fP \|\f2from\fP \|[ \|\f2to\fP \|]
copy file
.I from\^
(on the remote system)
to file
.I to\^
on the local system.
If
.I to\^
is omitted,
the
.I from\^
argument is used in both places.
.TP
\&\f3~%put\fP \|\f2from\fP \|[ \|\f2to\fP \|]
copy file
.I from\^
(on local system)
to file
.I to\^
on remote system.
If
.I to\^
is omitted, the
.I from\^
argument is used in both places.
.TP
.BR ~~ .\|.\|.
send the line
.BR ~ ".\|.\|."
to the remote system.
.TP
\&\f3~%break\fP
transmit a 
.B BREAK
to the remote system.
.TP
.B ~%nostop
toggles between \s-1DC\s+1\&3/\s-1DC\s+1\&1
input control protocol and no input control.
This is useful in case the remote system is one which does
not respond properly to the \s-1DC\s+1\&3 and \s-1DC\s+1\&1 characters.
.PP
The
.I receive\^
process normally copies data from the remote system to its standard
output.
A line from the remote that begins with \f3~>\fP initiates
an output diversion to a file.
The complete sequence is:
.PP
.RS
\&\f3~>\fP\^[\^\f3>\fP\^]\^\f3:\fP\^\|\f2file\fP
.br
zero or more lines to be written to
.I file\^
.br
.B ~>
.RE
.PP
Data from the remote is diverted (or appended, if
.B >>
is used) to
.IR file .
The trailing \f3~>\fP terminates the diversion.
.PP
The use of
.B ~%put
requires
.IR stty (1)
and
.IR cat (1)
on the remote side.
It also requires that the
current erase and kill characters on the remote
system be identical to the current ones on the local system.
Backslashes are inserted at appropriate places.
.PP
The use of
.B ~%take
requires the existence of
.IR echo (1)
and
.IR cat (1)
on the remote system.
Also,
.B stty tabs
mode should be set on the remote system if
tabs are to be copied without expansion.
.bp
.PP
When  
.B cu
is used on system X to connect to system Y and
subsequently used on system Y to connect to
system Z, commands on system Y can be executed
by using ~~. For example, uname can be executed
on Z, X, and Y as follows:
.br
.sp
uname
.br
Z
.br
~!uname
.br
X
.br
~~!uname
.br
Y
.br
In general,
.B ~
causes the command to be executed on the original machine,
.B ~~
causes the command to be executed on the next machine in
the chain.
.SH EXAMPLES
.RE
.PP
To dial a system whose number is 9 201 555 1212 using 1200 baud:
.RS
cu  -s1200   9=2015551212
.RE
.PP
If the speed is not specified, 300 is the default value.
.RE
.PP
To login to a system connected by a direct line:
.RS
cu  -l  /dev/ttyXX  dir
.RE
.PP
To dial a system with the specific line and a specific speed:
.RS
cu  -s1200  -l  /dev/ttyXX  dir
.RE
.PP
To dial a system using a specific line:
.RS
cu  -l  /dev/culXX  2015551212 
.RE
.PP
To use a system name:
.RS
cu  YYYZZZ
.br
.SH FILES
.br
/usr/lib/uucp/L.sys
.br
/usr/lib/uucp/L-devices
.br
/usr/spool/uucp/\s-1LCK\s+1..(tty-device)
.br
/dev/null
.SH SEE ALSO
cat(1), ct(1C), echo(1), stty(1), uname(1), uucp(1C).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Exit code is zero for normal exit,
non-zero (various values) otherwise.
.SH BUGS
.I Cu\^
buffers input internally.
.br
There is an artificial slowing of transmission by
.I cu\^
during the
.B ~%put
operation so that loss of data is unlikely.
.br
Since the
.SM
NSC
.SM
SYS32
processor does not support
ACU hardware you can only
use
.B cu
with a hardwired line.
.\"	@(#)cu.1c	6.3 of 9/2/83
