.TH CXREF 1
.SH NAME
cxref \- generate C program cross-reference
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cxref
\&[ options ]
files
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Cxref
analyzes a collection of C files
and attempts to build a cross-reference table.
.I Cxref
utilizes a special version of
.I cpp
to include
.BR #define 'd
information in its symbol table.
It produces a listing on standard output of all symbols (auto, static,
and global) in each file separately, or with the
.B \-c
option, in combination.
Each symbol 
contains an asterisk (\(**) before the declaring reference.
.PP
In addition to the
.BR \-D \*S,
.B \-I
and
.B \-U
options [which are identical to their interpretation by
.IR cc (1)],
the following \fIoptions\fP are interpreted by
.IR cxref :
.TP 8
.B \-c
Print a combined cross-reference of all input files.
.TP
\f3\-w\f2<num>\fR
Width option which formats output no wider than <num> (decimal) columns.
This option will default to 80 if <num> is not specified or is less than 51.
.TP
.BR \-o " file"
Direct output to named \fIfile\fP.
.TP
.B \-s
Operate silently; does not print input file names.
.TP
.BR \-t
Format listing for 80-column width.
.SH FILES
.TP \w'/usr/lib/xcpp\ \ \ \ 'u
/usr/lib/xcpp
special version of C-preprocessor.
.SH SEE ALSO
cc(1).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Error messages are unusually cryptic, but usually mean
that you cannot compile these files, anyway.
.SH BUGS
.IR Cxref
considers a formal argument in a
.IR #define
macro definition to be a declaration of that symbol. For example,
a program that
.IR #include s
.BR ctype.h ,
will contain many declarations of the variable
.BR c .
.\"	@(#)cxref.1	6.2 of 9/2/83
