.TH F77 1
.SH NAME
f77 \- \s-1FORTRAN\s+1 77 compiler
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B f77
[ options ] files
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I F77\^
is the
.SM UNIX
System \s-1FORTRAN\s+1 77 compiler;
it accepts several types of
.I file\^
arguments:
.RS
.PP
Arguments whose names end with
.B \&.f
are taken to be
\s-1FORTRAN\s+1 77 source programs;
they are compiled and
each object program is left in the current directory
in a file
whose name is that of the source, with
.B \&.o
substituted
for
.BR \&.f .
.PP
Arguments whose names end with
.B \&.r
or
.B \&.e
are taken to be
.SM RATFOR
or
.SM EFL
source programs, respectively.
These are first transformed by the
appropriate preprocessor, then compiled by
.IR f77 ,
producing
.B \&.o
files.
.PP
In the same way,
arguments whose names end with
.B \&.c
or
.B \&.s
are taken to be
C
or assembly source programs
and are compiled or assembled, producing
.B \&.o
files.
.RE
.PP
The following
.I options\^
have the same meaning as in
.IR cc (1)
[see
.IR ld (1)
for link editor options]:
.PP
.PD 0
.TP 12
.B \-c
Suppress link editing and produce
.B \&.o
files for each source
file.
.TP
.B \-f
In systems without floating-point hardware,
use a version of
.I f77\^
that handles floating-point
constants and
links the object program with the floating-point interpreter.
.TP
.B \-g
Generate additional information needed for the use of
.IR sdb (1).
.TP
.BI \-o "output\^"
Name the final output file
.IR output ,
instead of
.BR a.out .
.TP
.B \-p
Prepare object files for profiling [see
.IR prof (1)].
.TP
.B \-\s-1O\s+1
Invoke an
object-code optimizer.
.TP
.B \-\s-1S\s+1
Compile the named programs and leave the
assembler-language output in corresponding files whose names are suffixed
with
.BR \&.s .
(No
.B \&.o
files are created.)
.PD
.PP
The following
.I options\^
are peculiar to
.IR f77 :
.PP
.PD 0
.TP 12
.B \-1
Same as
.BR \-onetrip .
.TP
.B \-66
Suppress extensions which enhance \s-1FORTRAN\s+1 66 compatibility.
.TP
.B \-m
Apply the M4 preprocessor to each
.SM EFL
or
.SM RATFOR
source file before transforming
with the
.IR ratfor (1)
or
.IR efl (1)
processors.
.TP
.B \-onetrip
Compile
.SM DO
loops that are performed at least once if reached.
(\s-1FORTRAN\s+1 77
.SM DO
loops are not performed at all if the upper limit is smaller than the lower limit.)
.TP
.B \-u
Make the default type of a variable
.IR undefined ,
rather than using the default \s-1FORTRAN\s+1 rules.
.TP
.B \-v
.I Verbose
mode.
Provide diagnostics for each process during compilation.
.TP
.B \-w
Suppress all warning messages.
If the option is
.BR \-w66 ,
only \s-1FORTRAN\s+1 66 compatibility warnings are suppressed.
.TP
.B \-\s-1C\s+1
Generate code for run-time subscript range-checking.
.TP
.B \-\s-1E\s+1
The remaining characters in the argument are used as an
.SM EFL
flag argument whenever processing
a
.B \&.e
file.
.TP
.B \-\s-1F\s+1
Apply
.SM EFL
and
.SM RATFOR
preprocessor to relevant files, put the result in files
whose names have their suffix changed to
.BR \&.f .
(No
.B \&.o
files are created.)
.bp
.TP
.BR \-\s-1N\s+1 "[qxscnl] nnn"
Change size of table [qxscnl] to nnn.
The compiler will provide a diagnostic when a table overflows.
The tables and corresponding default values for nnn are:
.br
.sp
.TS
l l l.
'q'	150	(equivalences)
'x'	200	(common blocks, subroutine and function names)
's'	401	(statement numbers)
's'	201	(symbol table)
'c'	20	(depth of loops or if-then-elses)
'n'	401	(variable names and common block names)
'l'	125	labels for computed and assigned gotos
		and the number of alternate returns
.TE
.br
.sp
.TP
.B \-\s-1R\s+1
The remaining characters in the argument are used as a
.SM RATFOR
flag argument whenever
processing a
.B \&.r
file.
.TP
.B \-\s-1U\s+1
Do not "fold" cases.
.I F77
is normally a no-case language (i.e.,
.B a
is equal to
.BR A ).
The
.B \-U
option
causes
.I f77
to treat upper and lowercases separately.
.PD
.PP
Other arguments
are taken
to be either link-editor option arguments or
.IR f77 -compilable
object programs (typically produced by an earlier
run),
or libraries of
.IR f77 -compilable
routines.
These programs, together with the results of any
compilations specified, are linked (in the order
given) to produce an executable program with the default name
.B a.out .
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 28
file.[fresc]
input file
.TP
file.o
object file
.TP
a.out
linked output
.TP
/usr/tmp/F77AAAa[\fIpid\fP].?
temporary
.TP
/usr/lib/f77pass1
compiler
.TP
/usr/lib/f77pass2
pass 2
.TP
/lib/c2
optional optimizer (VAX computers)
.TP
/usr/lib/f77optim
optional optimizer
.TP
\&
(AT&T 3B20, 3B5, 3B2 computers)
.TP
/usr/lib/libF77.a
intrinsic function library
.TP
/usr/lib/libI77.a
\s-1FORTRAN\s+1 I/O library
.TP
/lib/libc.a
C library; see Section 3 of this Manual.
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
as(1),
asa(1),
cc(1),
ef\&l(1),
fsplit(1),
ld(1),
m4(1),
prof(1),
ratfor(1),
sdb(1).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The diagnostics produced by
.I f77\^
itself are intended to be
self-explanatory.
Occasional messages may be produced by the link editor
.IR ld (1)
or the assembler
.IR as (1).
.\"	@(#)f77.1	6.2 of 9/2/83
