.TH FIND 1
.SH NAME
find \- find files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B find
path-name-list  expression
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Find\^
recursively descends
the directory hierarchy for
each path name in the
.I path-name-list\^
(i.e., one or more path names)
seeking files that match a Boolean
.I expression\^
written in the primaries given below.
In the descriptions, the argument
.I n\^
is used as a decimal integer
where
.BI + n\^
means more than
.IR n ,
.BI \- n\^
means less than
.I n\^
and
.I n\^
means exactly
.IR n .
.TP 16
.BI \-name " file\^"
True if
.I file\^
matches the current file name.
Normal shell
argument syntax may be used if escaped (watch out for
.BR [ ", "
.BR ? " and "
.BR \(** ).
.TP 16
.BI \-perm " onum\^"
True if the file permission flags
exactly
match the
octal number
.I onum\^
[see
.IR chmod (1)].
If
.I onum\^
is prefixed by a minus sign,
more flag bits [017777, see
.IR stat (2)]
become significant and
the flags are compared.
.TP 16
.BI \-type " c\^"
True if the type of the file
is
.IR c ,
where
.I c\^
is
.BR b ,
.BR c ,
.BR d ,
.BR p ,
or
.B f
for
block special file, character special file,
directory, fifo (a.k.a named pipe), or plain file respectively.
.TP 16
.BI \-links " n\^"
True if the file has
.I n\^
links.
.TP 16
.BI \-user " uname\^"
True if the file belongs to the user
.IR uname .
If
.I uname\^
is numeric and does not appear as a login name in the
.B /etc/passwd
file, it is taken as a user \s-1ID\s0.
.TP 16
.BI \-group " gname\^"
True if the file belongs to the group
.IR gname .
If 
.I gname\^
is numeric and does not appear in the
.B /etc/group
file, it is taken as a group \s-1ID\s0.
.TP 16
.BR \-size " \fIn\fP[" c ]
True if the file is
.I n\^
blocks long (512 bytes per block).
If
.I n
is followed by a
.BR c ,
the size is in characters.
.TP 16
.BI \-atime " n\^"
True if the file has been accessed in
.I n\^
days.
The access time of directories in 
.I path-name-list\^
is changed by 
.I find\^
itself.
.TP 16
.BI \-mtime " n\^"
True if the file has been modified in
.I n\^
days.
.TP 16
.BI \-ctime " n\^"
True if the file has been changed in
.I n\^
days.
.TP 16
.BI \-exec " cmd\^"
True if the executed
.I cmd\^
returns
a zero value as exit status.
The end of
.I cmd\^
must be punctuated by an escaped
semicolon.
A command argument
.B {}
is replaced by the
current path name.
.TP 16
.BI \-ok " cmd\^"
Like
.B \-exec
except that the generated command line is printed
with a question mark first,
and is executed only if the user responds
by typing
.BR y .
.TP 16
.B  \-print
Always true;
causes the current path name to be printed.
.TP 16
.BI \-cpio " device\^"
Always true;
write the current file on
.I device\^
in
.IR cpio\| (4)
format (5120-byte records).
.TP 16
.BI \-newer " file\^"
True if
the current file has been modified more recently than the argument
.IR file .
.TP 16
.B \-depth
Always true;
causes descent of the directory hierarchy to be done
so that all entries in a directory are
acted on 
before the directory itself.
This can be useful when 
.I find\^
is used with
.IR cpio (1)
to transfer files
that are contained in directories without 
write permission.
.TP 16
.BI ( " expression " )
True if the parenthesized expression is true
(parentheses are special to the shell and must be escaped).
.PP
The primaries may be combined using the following operators
(in order of decreasing precedence):
.TP 4
1)
The negation of a primary
.RB ( !
is the unary
.I not\^
operator).
.TP 4
2)
Concatenation of primaries
(the
.I and\^
operation
is implied by the juxtaposition of two primaries).
.TP 4
3)
Alternation of primaries
.RB "(" \-o " is the"
.I or\^
operator).
.SH EXAMPLE
To remove all files
named \f3a.out\fP or \f3\(**.o\fP that
have not been accessed for a week:
.PP
find  /  \\( \-name a.out \-o \-name \(fm\(**.o\(fm \\)
\-atime +7 \-exec rm {} \\;
.SH FILES
/etc/passwd, /etc/group
.SH "SEE ALSO"
chmod(1), cpio(1), sh(1), test(1).
.br
stat(2), cpio(4), fs(4) in the
\f2\s-1UNIX\s+1 System V Programmer Reference Manual\fR.
.\"	@(#)find.1	6.3 of 9/2/83
