.TH GDEV 1G
.SH NAME
hpd, erase, hardcopy, tekset, td \- graphical device routines and filters
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B hpd
.RB [ \- options]
.RB "[\s-1GPS\s+1~file" "~.\|.\|." ]
.br
.B erase
.br
.B hardcopy
.br
.B tekset
.br
.B td
.RB [ \-eur n]
.RB "[\s-1GPS\s+1~file" "~.\|.\|." ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
All of the commands described below reside in
.B /usr/bin/graf
(see
.IR graphics (1G)).
.TP 10
.B hpd
Hpd translates a \s-1GPS\s+1 (see
.IR gps (4)),
to instructions for the Hewlett-Packard 7221A Graphics Plotter.
A viewing window is computed from the maximum and minimum points in
.I file\^
unless the
.B \-u
or
.B \-r
.I option\^
is provided.
If no
.I file\^
is given, the standard input is assumed.
.I Options\^
are:
.RS 10
.TP 5
.BI c n\^
Select character set
.IR n ,
.I n\^
between 0 and 5 (see the
.SM
.IR "HP\*S7221A Plotter Operating and Programming Manual" ", " "Appendix A" ).
.TP 5
.BI p n\^
Select pen numbered
.IR n ,
.I n\^
between 1 and 4 inclusive.
.TP 5
.BI r n\^
Window on \s-1GPS\s+1 region
.IR n ,
.I n\^
between 1 and 25 inclusive.
.TP 5
.BI s n\^
Slant characters
.I n\^
degrees clockwise from the vertical.
.TP 5
.B u
Window on the entire \s-1GPS\s+1 universe.
.TP 5
.BI xd n\^
Set x displacement of the viewport's lower left corner to
.I n\^
inches.
.TP 5
.BI xv n\^
Set width of viewport to
.I n\^
inches.
.TP 5
.BI yd n\^
Set y displacement of the viewport's lower left corner to
.I n\^
inches.
.TP 5
.BI yv n\^
Set height of viewport to
.I n\^
inches.
.RE
.TP 10
\fBerase\fR 
\fIErase\fR sends characters to a \s-1TEKTRONIX\s+1 4010 series storage terminal to erase the screen.
.TP 10
\fBhardcopy\fR 
When issued at a \s-1TEKTRONIX\s+1 display terminal with a hard copy
unit, \fIhardcopy\fR generates a screen copy on the unit.
.TP 10
\fBtekset\fR 
\fITekset\fR sends characters to a \s-1TEKTRONIX\s+1 terminal to 
clear the display screen, set the display mode to alpha,
and set characters to the smallest font.
.TP 10
\fBtd\fR
\fITd\fR translates a \s-1GPS\s+1 to scope code for a \s-1TEKTRONIX\s+1 4010 series storage terminal.  A viewing
window is computed from the maximum and minimum points in
.I file\^
unless the
.B \-u
or
.B \-r
.I option\^
is provided.
If no
.I file\^
is given, the
standard input is assumed.
Options
are:
.RS 10
.TP 5
.B e
Do not erase screen before initiating display.
.TP 5
.BI r n\^
Display \s-1GPS\s+1 region \fIn\fR, \fIn\fR between 1 and
25 inclusive.
.TP 5
.B u
Display the entire \s-1GPS\s+1 universe.
.RE
.DT
.SH "SEE ALSO"
ged(1G), graphics(1G).
.br
gps(4) in the
\f2\s-1\UNIX\s+1 System V Programmer Reference Manual\fR.
.tr ~~
.\"	@(#)gdev.1g	6.2 of 9/2/83
