.TH GED 1G
.SH NAME
ged \- graphical editor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ged
.RB [ \-euRr n]
.RB "[\s-1GPS~file\s+1" "~.\|.\|." ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIGed\fR is an interactive graphical editor used to display, 
construct, and edit \s-1GPS\s+1 files on
\s-1TEKTRONIX\s+1 4010 series display terminals.
If \s-1GPS\s+1 \fIfile\fR(s) are given, \fIged\fR reads them into an internal display
buffer and displays the buffer.  The \s-1GPS\s+1 in the buffer can then be edited.
If \fB\-\fR is given as a file name, \fIged\fR reads a \s-1GPS\s+1 from the standard input.
.PP
\fIGed\fR accepts the following command line options:
.RS 5
.TP 5
\fBe\fR
Do not erase the screen before the initial display.
.TP 5
\fBr\fR\fIn\fR
Display region number \fIn\fR.
.TP 5
\fBu\fR
Display the entire \s-1GPS\s+1 \fIuniverse\fR.
.TP 5
\fBR\fR
Restricted shell invoked on use of \fB!\fR.
.RE
.PP
A \s-1GPS\s+1 file is composed of instances of three graphical objects:  \fIlines\fR,
\fIarc\fR, and \fItext\fR.
\fIArc\fR and \fIlines\fR objects have a start point, 
or \fIobject-handle\fR, followed by zero or more points, or
\fIpoint-handles\fR.  \fIText\fR has only an object-handle.
The objects are positioned
within a Cartesian plane, or \fIuniverse\fR, 
having 64K (\-32K to +32K) points, or \fIuniverse-units\fR, on each axis.
The universe is divided into 25 equal sized areas called \fIregions\fR.
Regions are arranged in five rows of five squares each, numbered 1 to 25 from
the lower left of the universe to the upper right.
.PP
\fIGed\fR maps rectangular areas, called \fIwindows\fR, from the
universe onto the display screen.
Windows allow the user
to view pictures from different locations and at different magnifications.
The \fIuniverse-window\fR is the window with minimum magnification,
i.e., the window that views the entire universe.
The \fIhome-window\fR is the window that completely displays the
contents of the display buffer.
.SH COMMANDS
.I Ged\^
commands are entered in
.IR stages .
Typically each stage ends with a
\fB<cr>\fR (return).
Prior to the final \fB<cr>\fR the command may be 
aborted by typing \fBrubout\fR.
The input of a stage may be edited during the stage
using the erase and kill characters of the calling shell.
The prompt \fB\(**\fR indicates that \fIged\fR is waiting at stage 1.
.sp
Each command consists of a subset of the following stages:
.TP 12
1.  \fICommand line\fR
A \fIcommand line\fR consists of a
command \fIname\fR followed by \fIargument\fR(s) followed by a \fB<cr>\fR.
A command \fIname\fR is a single character.
Command \fIarguments\fR are either \fIoption\fR(s) or a \fIfile-name\fR.
\fIOptions\fR are indicated by a leading \fB\-\fR.
.TP 12
2.   \fIText\fR
\fIText\fR is a sequence of characters terminated by an unescaped \fB<cr>\fR.
(120 lines of text maximum.)
.TP 12
3.   \fIPoints\fR
\fIPoints\fR is a sequence of one or more screen locations (maximum of 30) indicated either
by the terminal crosshairs or by name.
The prompt for entering \fIpoints\fR is the appearance of the crosshairs.
When the crosshairs are visible, typing:
.RS 12
.TP 5
\fBsp\fR
(space) enters the current location as a \fIpoint\fR.
The \fIpoint\fR is identified with a number.
.TP 5
\fB$\fIn\fR
enters the previous \fIpoint\fR numbered \fIn\fR.
.TP 5
\fB>\fIx\fR
labels the last \fIpoint\fR entered with the upper case letter \fIx\fR.
.TP 5
\fB$\fIx\fR
enters the \fIpoint\fR labeled \fIx\fR.
.TP 5
\&\fB.\fR
establishes the previous \fIpoints\fR as the current \fIpoints\fR.
At the start of a command the previous \fIpoints\fR
are those locations given with the previous command.
.TP 5
\fB=\fR
echoes the current \fIpoints\fR.
.TP 5
\fB$.\fIn\fR
enters the \fIpoint\fR numbered \fIn\fR from the
previous \fIpoints\fR.
.TP 5
\fB#\fR
erases the last \fIpoint\fR entered.
.TP 5
\fB@\fR
erases all of the \fIpoints\fR entered.
.RE
.TP 12
4.   \fIPivot\fR
The \fIpivot\fR is a single location,
entered by typing \fB<cr>\fR
or by using the \fB$\fR operator, and indicated with a \fB\(**\fR.
.TP 12
5.   \fIDestination\fR
The \fIdestination\fR is a single location entered by typing \fB<cr>\fR
or by using \fB$\fR.
.RE
.sp
.SS "\s-1COMMAND SUMMARY\s+1"
In the summary,
characters typed by the user are printed in \fBbold\fP.
Command stages are printed in \fIitalics\fP.
Arguments surrounded by brackets
.RB `` [\|] ''
are optional.
Parentheses
.RB `` (\|) ''
surrounding arguments separated by ``or''
means that exactly one of the arguments must be given.
.sp
.SS Construct commands:
.RS 5
.TP 12
\fBA\fRrc
[\fB\-e\fRcho,\fBs\fRtyle,\fBw\fReight] \fIpoints\fR
.TP 12
\fBB\fRox
[\fB\-e\fRcho,\fBs\fRtyle,\fBw\fReight] \fIpoints\fR
.TP 12
\fBC\fRircle
[\fB\-e\fRcho,\fBs\fRtyle,\fBw\fReight] \fIpoints\fR
.TP 12
\fBH\fRardware
[\fB\-e\fRcho] \fItext points\fR
.TP 12
\fBL\fRines
[\fB\-e\fRcho,\fBs\fRtyle,\fBw\fReight] \fIpoints\fR
.TP 12
\fBT\fRext
[\fB\-a\fRngle,\fBe\fRcho,\fBh\fReight,\fBm\fRid-point,\fBr\fRight-point,\fBt\fRext,\fBw\fReight] \fItext points\fR
.RE
.sp
.SS "Edit commands:"
.RS 5
.TP 12
\fBD\fRelete
( \fB\-\fR (\fBu\fRniverse or \fBv\fRiew) or \fIpoints\fR )
.TP 12
\fBE\fRdit
[\fB\-a\fRngle,\fBe\fRcho,\fBh\fReight,\fBs\fRtyle,\fBw\fReight] ( \fB\-\fR (\fBu\fRniverse or \fBv\fRiew) or \fIpoints\fR )
.TP 12
\fBK\fRopy
[\fB\-e\fRcho,\fBp\fRoints,\fBx\fR] \fIpoints\fR \fIpivot\fR \fIdestination\fR
.TP 12
\fBM\fRove
[\fB\-e\fRcho,\fBp\fRoints,\fBx\fR] \fIpoints\fR \fIpivot\fR \fIdestination\fR
.TP 12
\fBR\fRotate
[\fB\-a\fRngle,\fBe\fRcho,\fBk\fRopy,\fBx\fR] \fIpoints\fR \fIpivot\fR \fIdestination\fR
.TP 12
\fBS\fRcale
[\fB\-e\fRcho,\fBf\fRactor,\fBk\fRopy,\fBx\fR] \fIpoints\fR \fIpivot\fR \fIdestination\fR
.sp
.RE
.SS "View commands:"
.RS 5
.TP 16
\fBc\fRoordinates
.I points\^
.TP 16
\fBe\fRrase
.TP 16
\fBn\fRew-display
.TP 16
\fBo\fRbject-handles
( \fB\-\fR (\fBu\fRniverse or \fBv\fRiew) or \fIpoints\fR )
.TP 16
\fBp\fRoint-handles
( \fB\-\fR (\fBl\fRabelled-points or \fBu\fRniverse or \fBv\fRiew) or \fIpoints\fR )
.TP 16
\fBv\fRiew
( \fB\-\fR (\fBh\fRome or \fBu\fRniverse or \fBr\fRegion) or [\fB\-x\fR] \fIpivot destination\fR )
.TP 16
\fBx\fR
[\fB\-v\fRiew] \fIpoints\fR
.TP 16
\fBz\fRoom
[\fB\-o\fRut]  \fIpoints\fR
.sp
.RE
.SS "Other commands:"
.RS 5
.TP 12
\fBq\fRuit or \fBQ\fRuit
.TP 12
\fBr\fRead
[\fB\-a\fRngle,\fBe\fRcho,\fBh\fReight,\fBm\fRid-point,\fBr\fRight-point,\fBt\fRext,\fBw\fReight
.br
\f2file-name\fR [\f2destination\fR]
.TP 12
\fBs\fRet
[\fB\-a\fRngle,\fBe\fRcho,\fBf\fRactor,\fBh\fReight,\fBk\fRopy,\fBm\fRid-point,\fBp\fRoints,
.br
\fBr\fRight-point,\fBs\fRtyle,\fBt\fRext,\fBw\fReight,\fBx\fR]
.TP 12
\fBw\fRrite
\fIfile-name\fR
.TP 12
\fB!\fR\fIcommand\fR
.TP 12
\fB?\fR
.RE
.sp
.SS Options: 
\fIOptions\fR specify parameters used to construct, edit, and view graphical objects.
If a parameter used by 
a command is not specifed as an \fIoption\fR, 
the default value for the parameter
will be used (see \fBs\fRet below).
The format of command \fIoptions\fR is:
.RS 5
\fB\-\fR\fIoption\|\fR[,\fIoption\fR\|]
.RE
where \fIoption\fR is \fIkeyletter\fR[\fIvalue\fR].
Flags take on the \fIvalues\fR of true or false indicated by \fB+\fR and \fB\-\fR
respectively.
If no \fIvalue\fR is given with a flag, true is assumed.
.sp
Object options:
.RS 5
.TP 12
\fBa\fRngle\fIn\fR
Angle of \fIn\fR degrees.
.TP 12
\fBe\fRcho
When true, echo additions to the display buffer.
.TP 12
\fBf\fRactor\fIn\fR
\fBS\fRcale factor is \fIn\fR percent.
.TP 12
\fBh\fReight\fIn\fR
Height of \fItext\fR is \fIn\fR universe-units (0\^\(<=\^\fIn\fR\^<\^1280).
.TP 12
\fBk\fRopy
When true, copy rather than move.
.TP 12
\fBm\fRid-point
When true, mid-point is used to locate text string.
.TP 12
\fBp\fRoints
When true, operate on points otherwise operate on objects.
.TP 12
\fBr\fRight-point
When true, right-point is used to locate \fItext\fR string.
.TP 12
\fBs\fRtyle\fItype\fR
Line style set to one of following \fItypes\fR\^:
.br
	\fBso\fR	solid
.br
	\fBda\fR	dashed
.br
	\fBdd\fR	dot-dashed
.br
	\fBdo\fR	dotted
.br
	\fBld\fR	long-dashed
.TP 12
\fBt\fRext
When false, \fItext\fR strings are outlined rather than drawn.
.TP 12
\fBw\fReight\fItype\fR
Sets line weight to one of following \fItypes\fR\^:
.br
	\fBn\fR	narrow
.br
	\fBm\fR	medium
.br
	\fBb\fR	bold
.RE
.bp
Area options:
.RS 5
.TP 12
\fBh\fRome
Reference the home-window.
.TP 12
\fBo\fRut
Reduce magnification.
.TP 12
\fBr\fRegion\fIn\fR
Reference region \fIn\fR.
.TP 12
\fBu\fRniverse
Reference the universe-window.
.TP 12
\fBv\fRiew
Reference those objects currently in view.
.TP 12
\fBx\fR
Indicate the center of the referenced area.
.RE
.sp
.SS "\s-1COMMAND DESCRIPTIONS\s+1"
.SS "Construct commands:"
.TP 5
\fBA\fRrc and \fBL\fRines
behave similarly.
Each consists of a
.I "command line\^"
followed by
.IR points .
The first
.I point\^
entered is the object-handle.
Successive
.I points\^
are point-handles.
\fBL\fRines connect the handles in numerical order.  \fBA\fRrc
fits a curve to the handles (currently a maximum of 3 points
will be fit with a circular arc; splines will be added in a later version).
.TP 5
\fBB\fRox and \fBC\fRircle
are special cases of \fBL\fRines and \fBA\fRrc, respectively.
\fBB\fRox generates a rectangle with sides parallel to the universe axes.
A diagonal of the rectangle would connect the first \fIpoint\fR entered with the last
\fIpoint\fR.
The first
.I point\^
is the object-handle.
Point-handles are created at each of the vertices.
\fBC\fRircle generates a circular arc centered about 
the \fIpoint\fR numbered zero and passing through
the last \fIpoint\fR.  The circle's object-handle 
coincides with the last \fIpoint\fR.
A point-handle is
generated 180 degrees around the circle from the object-handle.
.TP 5
\fBT\fRext and \fBH\fRardware 
generate \fItext\fR objects.
Each consists of a
.IR "command line" ,
.I text\^
and
.IR points .
.I Text\^
is a sequence of characters delimited by \fB<cr>\fR.
Multiple lines of text may be entered by preceding a
.B cr
with a backslash (i.e., \fB\ecr\fR).
The \fBT\fRext
command creates software generated characters.
Each line of software text is treated as a separate
.I text\^
object.
The first
.I point\^
entered is the object-handle
for the first line of text.
The \fBH\fRardware command sends the characters
in \fItext\fR uninterpreted to the terminal.
.RE
.sp
.SS "Edit commands:"
.sp
Edit commands operate on portions of the display
buffer called \fIdefined areas\fR.
A defined area is referenced either with an area \fIoption\fR
or interactively.
If an area \fIoption\fR is not given,
the perimeter of the defined area is indicated by
.I points.\^
If no \fIpoint\fR is entered,
a small defined area is built around the location of the \fB<cr>\fR.
This is useful to reference a single \fIpoint\fR.
If only one \fIpoint\fR is entered,
the location of the \fB<cr>\fR is taken in conjunction with the \fIpoint\fR
to indicate a diagonal of a rectangle.
A defined area referenced by \fIpoints\fR will
be outlined with dotted lines.  
.TP 5
\fBD\fRelete 
removes all objects whose object-handle lies
within a defined area.  The \fBu\fRniverse option
removes all objects and erases the screen.
.bp
.TP 5
\fBE\fRdit 
modifies the parameters of the objects within a defined area.
Parameters that can be edited are:
.br
	\fBa\fRngle	angle of \fItext\fR
.br
	\fBh\fReight	height of \fItext\fR
.br
	\fBs\fRtyle	style of \fIlines\fR and \fIarc\fR
.br
	\fBw\fReight	weight of \fIlines\fR, \fIarc\fR, and \fItext\fR.
.br
.TP 5
\fBK\fRopy (or \fBM\fRove) 
copies (or moves) object-
and/or point-handles within a
defined area by the displacement from the
\fIpivot\fR to the \fIdestination\fR.
.TP 5
\fBR\fRotate 
rotates objects within a defined area
around the \fIpivot\fR.
If the \fBk\fRopy flag is true then the objects are copied rather than moved.
.TP 5
\fBS\fRcale 
For objects whose object handles are within a defined area,
point displacements from the \fIpivot\fR are scaled by \fBf\fRactor percent.
If the \fBk\fRopy flag is true then the objects are copied rather than moved.
.sp
.SS "View commands:"
.TP 5
\fBc\fRoordinates
prints the location of \fIpoint\fR(s) in universe- and screen-units.
.TP 5
\fBe\fRrase
clears the screen (but not the display buffer).
.TP 5
\fBn\fRew-display
erases the screen then displays the display buffer.
.TP 5
\fBo\fRbject-handles (or \fBp\fRoint-handles) 
labels object-handles (and/or point-handles) that lie
within the defined area with \fBO\fR (or \fBP\fR).
\fBP\fRoint-handles identifies labeled points when the \fBl\fRabelled-points flag is true.
.TP 5
\fBv\fRiew 
moves the window so that the universe point corresponding to the 
\fIpivot\fR coincides with the screen point corresponding to the
\fIdestination\fR.
Options for \fBh\fRome, \fBu\fRniverse,
and \fBr\fRegion display particular windows in the universe.
.TP 5
.B x
indicates the center of a defined area.
Option \fBv\fRiew indicates the center of the screen.
.TP 5
\fBz\fRoom 
decreases (\fBz\fRoom \fBo\fRut) or increases the magnification of the viewing window based on the defined area.
For increased magnification, the window is set to circumscribe the
defined area.  For a decrease in magnification the current
window is inscribed within the defined area.
.sp
.RE
.SS "Other commands:"
.TP 5
\fBq\fRuit or \fBQ\fRuit
exit from \fIged\fR.
\fBQ\fRuit responds with \fB?\fR if the display buffer has not
been written since the last modification.
.TP 5
\fBr\fRead
inputs the contents of a file.
If the file contains a \s-1GPS\s+1 it is read directly.
If the file contains text it is converted into \fItext\fR object(s).
The first line of a text file begins at \fIdestination\fR.
.TP 5
\fBs\fRet
when given \fIoption\fR(s) resets default parameters,
otherwise it prints current default values.
.TP 5
\fBw\fRrite
outputs the contents of the display buffer to a file.
.TP 5
\fB!\fR
escapes \fIged\fR to execute a \s-1UNIX\s+1 system command.
.TP 5
\fB?\fR
lists \fIged\fR commands.
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
gdev(1G), graphics(1G), sh(1).
.br
gps(4) in the 
\f2\s-1UNIX\s+1 System V Programmer Reference Manual\fR.
.br
.sp
.I "An Introduction to the Graphical Editor\^"
in the
.IR "\s-1UNIX\s+1 System V Graphics Guide" .
.SH WARNING
.PP
See Appendix A of the
.I "\s-1TEKTRONIX\s+1 4014 Computer Display Terminal User's Manual\^"
for the proper
terminal strap options.
.tr ~~
.\"	@(#)ged.1g	6.3 of 9/2/83
