.TH GRAPHICS 1G
.SH NAME
graphics \- access graphical and numerical commands
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B graphics
[ \fB\-r\fP ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Graphics\^
prefixes the path name
.B /usr/bin/graf
to the current
.B $\s-1PATH\s+1
value,
changes the primary shell prompt to \fB^\fR,
and executes a new shell.
The directory
.B /usr/bin/graf
contains all of the Graphics subsystem commands.
If the \fB\-r\fR option is given,
access to the graphical commands is created
in a restricted environment;
that is,
.B $\s-1PATH\s+1
is set to
.ce
.RS
.RB  : /usr/bin/graf : \%/rbin : \%/usr/rbin : \%/bin : \%/usr/bin
.RE
and the restricted shell,
.IR rsh ,
is invoked.
To restore the environment that existed prior to
issuing the
.I graphics\^
command, type
.B \s-1EOT\s+1
(control-d on most terminals).
To logoff from the graphics environment,
type
.BR quit .
.PP
The command line format for a command in
.I graphics\^
is \fIcommand name\fR followed by \fIargument\fR(s).
An \fIargument\fR may be a \fIfile name\fR or an \fIoption string\fR.
A \fIfile name\fR is the name of any \s-1UNIX\s+1 system file except those
beginning with \fB\-\fR.
The \fIfile name\fR \fB\-\fR is the name for the standard input.
An \fIoption string\fR consists of \fB\-\fR followed by one or more \fIoption\fR(s).
An \fIoption\fR consists of a keyletter possibly followed by a value.
\fIOptions\fR may be separated by commas.
.PP
The graphical commands have been partitioned into four groups.
.IP
Commands that manipulate and plot numerical data; see
.IR stat (1G).
.IP
Commands that generate tables of contents; see
.IR toc (1G).
.IP
Commands that interact with graphical devices; see
.IR gdev (1G)
and
.IR ged (1G).
.IP
A collection of graphical utility commands; see
.IR gutil (1G).
.PP
A list of the
.I graphics\^
commands can be generated
by typing
.B whatis
in the 
.I graphics\^
environment.
.SH SEE ALSO
gdev(1G),
ged(1G),
gutil(1G),
stat(1G),
toc(1G).
.br
gps(4) in the
\f2\s-1UNIX\s+1 System V Programmer Reference Manual\fR.
.br
.sp
.IR "\s-1UNIX\s+1 System V Graphics Guide" .
.\"	@(#)graphics.1g	6.3 of 9/2/83
