.TH GUTIL 1G
.SH NAME
gutil \- graphical utilities
.SH SYNOPSIS
command-name [options] [files]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Below is a list of miscellaneous device
independent utility commands found in
.BR /usr/bin/graf .
If no
.I files\^
are given, input is from the standard input.
All output is to the standard output.
Graphical data is stored in \s-1GPS\s+1 format; see 
.IR gps (4).
.sp
.PP
.TP 10
.B bel \c
 \- send bel character to terminal
.PP
.TP 10
.B cvrtopt
[\|=\c
.BI s "string\^"
.BI f "string\^"
.BI i "string " t string\c\^
\|\|]  [\|\c
.I args\c\^
\|\|] \c
 \- options converter
.br
.I Cvrtopt\^
reformats \fIargs\fR (usually
the command line arguments of a
calling shell procedure)
to facilitate processing by shell procedures.
An \fIarg\fR is either a file name
(a string not beginning with
a \fB\-\fR, or a \fB\-\fR by itself)
or an option string
(a string of options beginning with a \fB\-\fR).
Output is of the form:
.br
		\fB\-\fIoption \fB\-\fIoption . . . file name(s)
.br
\fRAll options appear singularly and preceding
any file names.
Options that take values (e.g.,
\fB\-\fRr1.1) or are two-letters long must
be described through options to \fIcvrtopt\fR.
.sp
\fICvrtopt\fR is usually used with \fIset\fR in the following manner
as the first line of a shell procedure:
.br
.BI "		set \- \*`cvrtopt =[" options "] $@\*`\^"
.br
.I Options\^
to
.I cvrtopt\^
are:
.RS 10n
.TP 10
.BI s string\^
\fIString\fP accepts string values.
.TP 10
.BI f string\^
\fIString\fP accepts floating point numbers as values.
.TP 10
.BI i string\^
\fIString\fP accepts integers as values.
.TP 10
.BI t string\^
\fIString\fP is a two-letter option name that takes no value.
.TP 10
\fIString\fP is a one- or two-letter option name.
.RE
.PP
.TP 10
.B gd
[\|\s-1GPS\s+1
.I files\^
\|\|] \c
 \- \s-1GPS\s+1 dump
.br
.I Gd\^
prints a human readable listing of \s-1GPS\s+1.
.PP
.TP 10
.B gtop
[\|\fB\-\c
.BI r n\| u\^
\|\|]  [\|\s-1GPS\s+1
.I files\^
\|\|] \c
 \- \s-1GPS\s+1 to \fIplot\^\fR(4) filter
.br
.I Gtop\^
transforms a \s-1GPS\s+1 into \fIplot\^\fR(4) commands displayable by \fIplot\fR filters.
\s-1GPS\s+1 objects are translated if they fall within the window
that circumscribes the first \fIfile\fR unless an
\fIoption\fR is given.
.br
Options:
.RS 10n
.TP 10
.BI r n\^
translate objects in \s-1GPS\s+1 
\fBr\fRegion \fIn\fR.
.TP 10
.B u
translate all objects in the \s-1GPS\s+1 \fBu\fRniverse.
.RE
.PP
.TP 10
.B pd
[
.I plot\c\^
\^(5)
.I files\^
\|\|] \c
 \- \fIplot\^\fR(4) dump
.br
.I Pd\^
prints a human readable listing of \fIplot\^\fR(4) format graphical commands.
.RE
.PP
.TP 10
.B ptog
[
.I plot\c\^
\^(5)
.I files\^
\|\|] \c
 \- \fIplot\^\fR(4) to \s-1GPS\s+1 filter
.br
.I Ptog\^
transforms \fIplot\^\fR(4) commands into a \s-1GPS\s+1.
.PP
.TP 10
.B quit \c
 \- terminate session
.PP
.TP 10
.B remcom
[
.I files\^
\|\|] \c
 \- remove comments
.br
.I Remcom\^
copies its input to its output with comments removed.
Comments are as defined in C (i.e., /\(** comment \(**/).
.PP
.TP 10
.B whatis
[\|\fB\-\c
.B o
\|\|]  [\|
.I names\^
\|\|] \c
 \- brief on-line documentation
.br
.I Whatis\^
prints a brief description of each \fIname\fR given.
If no \fIname\fR is given, then the current list of description \fInames\fR is printed.
The command
.B whatis \e\(**
prints out every description.
.br
Option:
.RS 10n
.TP 10
.B o
just print command
.BR o ptions
.RE
.PP
.TP 10
.B yoo
.I file\^\c
 \- pipe fitting
.br
.I Yoo\^
is a piping primitive that deposits the output of a pipeline
into a \fIfile\fR used in the pipeline.
Note that, without \fIyoo\fR, this is not usually successful as it causes a read and write
on the same file simultaneously.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
graphics(1G).
.br
gps(4), plot(4) in the
\f2\s-1UNIX\s+1 System V Programmer Reference Manual\fR.
.\"	@(#)gutil.1g	6.2 of 9/2/83
