.TH LPSTAT 1
.SH NAME
lpstat \- print \s-1LP\s+1 status information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lpstat
[\|options\|]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Lpstat
prints information
about the current status
of the
.SM LP
line printer system.
.PP
If no
.I options
are given,
then
.I lpstat
prints the status
of all requests
made to
.IR lp (1)
by the user.
Any arguments that are not
.I options
are assumed to be request
.I ids
(as returned by
.IR lp ).
.I Lpstat
prints the status
of such requests.
.I Options
may appear in any order
and may be repeated and intermixed
with other arguments.
Some of the keyletters below
may be followed
by an optional
.I list
that can be in one of two forms:
a list of items separated from one another by a comma,
or a list of items enclosed in double quotes
and separated from one another by a comma and/or
one or more spaces.
For example:
.PP
.RS
\-u"user1, user2, user3"
.RE
.PP
The omission of a
.I list
following such keyletters
causes all information
relevant to the keyletter
to be printed, for example:
.PP
.RS
lpstat \-o
.RE
.PP
prints the status of all output requests.
.TP "\w'\-a[\|list\|]\ \ \ \ 'u"
.BR \-a [\|\fIlist\fP\|]
Print acceptance status
(with respect to
.IR lp )
of destinations for requests.
.I List
is a list of intermixed
printer names
and
class names.
.TP
.BR \-c [\|\fIlist\fP\|]
Print class names and their members.
.I List
is a list of class names.
.TP
.B \-d
Print the system default destination for
.IR lp .
.TP
.BR \-o [\|\fIlist\fP\|]
Print the status of output requests.
.I List
is a list of intermixed
printer names,
class names,
and request
.IR ids .
.TP
.BR \-p [\|\fIlist\fP\|]
Print the status of printers.
.I List
is a list of printer names.
.TP
.B \-r
Print the status of
the LP request scheduler
.TP
.B \-s
Print
a status summary,
including
the status of the line printer scheduler,
the system default destination,
a list of class names
and their members,
and a list of printers
and their associated devices.
.TP
.B \-t
Print all status information.
.TP
.BR \-u [\|\fIlist\fP\|]
Print status of output requests for users.
.I List
is a list of login names.
.TP
.BR \-v [\|\fIlist\fP\|]
Print the names of printers
and the pathnames of the devices
associated with them.
.I List
is a list of printer names.
.SH FILES
/usr/spool/lp/\(**
.SH SEE ALSO
enable(1),
lp(1).
.\"	@(#)lpstat.1	6.2 of 9/2/83
