.TH LS 1
.SH NAME
ls \- list contents of directory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ls
[
.B \-RadCxmlnogrtucpFbqisf
] [names]
.SH DESCRIPTION
For each directory argument,
.I ls
lists the contents of the directory;
for each file argument,
.I ls
repeats its name and any other information requested.
The output is sorted alphabetically by default.
When no argument is given, the current directory is listed.
When several arguments are given,
the arguments are first sorted appropriately,
but file arguments appear
before directories and their contents.
.PP
There are three major listing formats.
The default format is to list one entry per line,
the
.B \-C
and
.B \-x
options enable
multi-column formats,
and the
.B \-m
option enables stream output format in which files are listed
across the page, separated by commas.
In order to determine output formats for the
.BR \-C ,
.BR \-x ,
and
.B \-m
options,
.I ls
uses an environment variable,
.BR \s-1COLUMNS\s+1 ,
to determine the number of character positions available on one
output line.
If this variable is not set,
the
.I terminfo
database is used to determine the number of columns, based on the
environment variable
.BR \s-1TERM\s+1 .
If this information cannot be obtained, 80 columns are assumed.
.PP
There are an unbelievable number of options:
.TP
.B  \-R
Recursively list subdirectories encountered.
.TP
.B  \-a
List all entries; usually entries whose names begin with a period
.RB ( . )
are not listed.
.TP
.B  \-d
If an argument is a directory, list only its name
(not its contents);
often used with
.B \-l
to get the status
of a directory.
.TP
.B  \-C
Multi-column output with entries sorted down the columns.
.TP
.B  \-x
Multi-column output with entries sorted across rather than
down the page.
.TP
.B  \-m
Stream output format.
.TP
.B  \-l
List in long format, giving mode, number of links, owner, group,
size in bytes, and time of last modification
for each file (see below).
If the file is a special file,
the size field will instead contain
the major and minor device numbers rather than a size.
.TP
.B \-n
The same as
.BR \-l ,
except that the owner's
.B UID
and group's
.B GID
numbers are printed, rather than
the associated character strings.
.TP
.B \-o
The same as
.BR \-l ,
except that the group is not printed.
.TP
.B  \-g
The same as
.BR \-l ,
except that the owner is not printed.
.TP
.B  \-r
Reverse the order of sort to get reverse alphabetic
or oldest first as appropriate.
.TP
.B  \-t
Sort by time modified (latest first) instead of
by name.
.TP
.B  \-u
Use time of last access instead of last
modification for sorting (with the 
.B \-t
option) or printing (with the
.B \-l
option).
.TP
.B  \-c
Use time of last modification of the i-node
(file created, mode changed, etc.) for sorting
.RB ( \-t )
or printing
.RB ( \-l ).
.TP
.B \-p
Put a slash
.RB ( / )
after each filename if that file is a directory.
.TP
.B  \-F
Put a slash
.RB ( / )
after each filename if that file is a directory
and put an asterisk
.RB ( * )
after each filename if that file is executable.
.TP
.B  \-b
Force printing of non-graphic characters to be in the octal \eddd
notation.
.TP
.B  \-q
Force printing of non-graphic characters in file names as
the character
.RB ( ? ).
.TP
.B  \-i
For each file,
print the i-number in the first column of the report.
.TP
.B  \-s
Give size in blocks,
including indirect blocks, for each entry.
.TP
.B  \-f
Force each argument to be interpreted as a directory
and list the name found in each slot.
This option turns off
.B "\-l, \-t, \-s,"
and
.B \-r,
and
turns on
.B \-a;
the order is the order in which entries
appear in the directory.
.PP
The mode printed under the
.B \-l
option consists of 10 characters
that are interpreted
as follows:
.RS
.sp \n(PDu
The first character is:
.sp \n(PDu
.RS
.PD 0
.TP 4
.B d
if the entry is a directory;
.TP
.B b
if the entry is a block special file;
.TP
.B c
if the entry is a character special file;
.TP
.B p
if the entry is a fifo (a.k.a. ``named pipe'') special file;
.TP
.B \-
if the entry is an ordinary file.
.RE
.PD
.sp \n(PDu
The next 9 characters are interpreted
as three sets of three bits each.
The first set refers to the owner's permissions;
the next to permissions of others in the user-group of the file;
and the last to all others.
Within each set, the three characters indicate
permission to read, to write, and to
execute the file as a program, respectively.
For a directory, ``execute'' permission is interpreted
to mean permission to search the directory
for a specified file.
.sp \n(PDu
The permissions are indicated as follows:
.sp \n(PDu
.RS
.PD 0
.TP 4
.B r
if the file is readable;
.TP
.B w
if the file is writable;
.TP
.B x
if the file is executable;
.TP
.B \-
if the indicated permission is
.I not\^
granted.
.RE
.PD
.sp \n(PDu
The group-execute permission character is given
as
.B s
if the file has set-group-\s-1ID\s+1 mode;
likewise, the user-execute permission character is given
as
.B s
if the file has set-user-\s-1ID\s+1 mode.
The last character of the mode (normally
.B x
or
.BR \- )
is
.B t
if the 1000 (octal) bit of the mode is on;
see
.IR chmod (1)
for the meaning of this mode.
The indications of set-\s-1ID\s+1 and 1000 bits of the mode
are capitalized
.RB ( S
and
.B T
respectively) if the corresponding execute permission is
.I not\^
set.
.RE
.PP
When the sizes of the files in a directory
are listed, a total count of blocks,
including indirect blocks, is printed.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20m
/etc/passwd
to get user
.SM ID\*Ss
for
.B "ls \-l"
and
.BR "ls \-o" .
.TP
/etc/group
to get group
.SM ID\*Ss
for
.B "ls \-l"
and
.BR "ls \-g" .
.TP
/usr/lib/terminfo/*
to get terminal information.
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
chmod(1),
find(1).
.SH BUGS
Unprintable characters in file names may confuse the
columnar output options.
.\"	@(#)ls.1	6.3 of 9/2/83
