.TH MAILX 1
.SH NAME
mailx \- interactive message processing system
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3mailx	[\f2options\f3] [\f2name...\f3]\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
The command
\f2mailx\fR provides a comfortable, flexible environment for sending and
receiving messages electronically.
When reading mail,
\*(Ma provides commands to facilitate saving, deleting, and responding to
messages.
When sending mail,
\*(Ma allows editing, reviewing and other modification of the message
as it is entered.
.PP
Incoming mail is stored in a standard file for each user,
called the system \*(mx for that user.
When \*(Ma is called to read messages,
the \*(mx is the default place to find them.
As messages are read,
they are marked to be moved to a secondary file for storage,
unless specific action is taken,
so that the messages need not be seen again.
This secondary file is called the \*(mb
and is normally located in the user's \s-1HOME\s+1 directory
(see "\s-1MBOX\s+1" (\*(EV) for a description of this file).
Messages remain in this file until forcibly removed.
.PP
On the command line,
.I options
start with a dash (\-) and any other arguments are taken to be
destinations (recipients).
If no recipients are specified,
\*(Ma will attempt to read messages from the \*(mx.
Command line options are:
.sp
.PP
.RS
.PD 0
.TP 14
.B \-d
Turn on debugging output.
Neither particularly interesting nor recommended.
.TP
.B \-e
Test for presence of mail.
\f2Mailx\fR prints nothing and exits with a successful return code if there is
mail to read.
.TP
.BR \-f \ [\*(fn]
Read messages from \*(fn instead of \*(mx.
If no \*(fn is specified,
the \*(mb is used.
.TP
.B \-F
Record the message in a file named after the first recipient.
Overrides the "record" variable, if set (see \*(EV).
.TP
.BR \-h \ \*(nu
The number of network "hops" made so far.  This is provided for network
software to avoid infinite delivery loops.
.TP
.B \-H
Print header summary only.
.TP
.B \-i
Ignore interrupts.
See also "ignore" (\*(EV).
.TP
.B \-n
Do not initialize from the system default
.I Mailx.rc
file.
.TP
.B \-N
Do not print initial header summary.
.TP
.BI \-r \ address
Pass
.I address
to network delivery software.
All tilde commands are disabled.
.TP
.BI \-s \ subject
Set the Subject header field to
.IR subject .
.TP
.BI \-u \ user
Read
.IR user 's
\*(mx.
This is only effective if
.IR user 's
\*(mx is not read protected.
.TP
.B \-U
Convert \f2uucp\fR style addresses to internet standards.
Overrides the "conv" environment variable.
.RE
.PD
.sp
.PP
When reading mail,
\*(Ma is in
\fIcommand mode\fR.
A header summary of the first several messages is displayed,
followed by a prompt indicating \*(Ma can accept regular commands
(see \*(CM below).
When sending mail,
\*(Ma is in
\fIinput mode\fR.
If no subject is specified on the command line,
a prompt for the subject is printed.
As the message is typed,
\*(Ma will read the message and store it in a temporary
file.
Commands may be entered by beginning a line with the tilde (~) escape
character followed by a single command letter and optional arguments.
See \*(TE for a summary of these commands.
.PP
At any time,
the behavior of \*(Ma is governed by a set of
\fIenvironment variables\fR.
These are flags and valued parameters which are set and cleared via the
.BR se t
and
.BR uns et
commands.
See \*(EV below for a summary of these parameters.
.PP
Recipients listed on the command line may be of three types:
login names,
shell commands,
or
alias groups.
Login names may be any network address,
including mixed network addressing.
If the recipient name begins with a pipe symbol (|),
the rest of the name is taken to be a shell command to pipe the
message through.
This provides an automatic interface with any program that reads the standard
input, such as
.IR lp (1)
for recording outgoing mail on paper.
Alias groups are set by the
.BR a lias
command (see \*(CM below)
and are lists of recipients of any type.
.PP
Regular commands are of the form
.sp
.ti +15
[
.B command
] [
.I msglist
] [
.I arguments
]
.sp
If no command is specified in \fIcommand mode\fR,
.BR p rint
is assumed.
In \fIinput mode\fR,
commands are recognized by the escape character,
and lines not treated as commands are taken as input for the message.
.PP
Each message is assigned a sequential number,
and there is at any time the notion of a 'current' message,
marked by a '>' in the header summary.
Many commands take an optional list of messages
(\*(ml) to operate on, which defaults to the current message.
A \*(ml is a list of message specifications separated by spaces,
which may include:
.PP
.RS
.PD 0
.TP 8
.B n
Message number
.BR n .
.TP
.B .
The current message.
.TP
.B ^
The first undeleted message.
.TP
.B $
The last message.
.TP
.B *
All messages.
.TP
.B n\-m
An inclusive range of message numbers.
.TP
.B user
All messages from
.BR user .
.TP
.B /string
All messages with
.B string
in the subject line (case ignored).
.TP
.BI : c
All messages of type
.IR c ,
where
.I c
is one of:
.RS 13
.TP
.B d
deleted messages
.TP
.B n
new messages
.TP
.B o
old messages
.TP
.B r
read messages
.TP
.B u
unread messages
.RE 0
.RS 13
Note that the context of the command determines whether this type of
message specification makes sense.
.RE
.PD
.PP
Other arguments are usually arbitrary strings whose usage
depends on the command involved.
File names,
where expected,
are expanded via the normal shell conventions (see
.IR sh (1)).
Special characters are recognized by certain commands and are
documented with the commands below.
.PP
At start-up time,
\*(Ma reads commands from a system-wide file
(\fB/usr/lib/mailx/mailx.rc\fR) to initialize
certain parameters,
then from a private start-up file (\f3$HOME/.mailrc\fR) for
personalized variables.
Most regular commands are legal inside start-up files,
the most common use being to set up initial display options and alias lists.
The following commands are not legal in the start-up file:
.BR ! ,
.BR C opy,
.BR e dit,
.BR fo llowup,
.BR F ollowup,
.BR ho ld,
.BR m ail,
.BR pre serve,
.BR r eply,
.BR R eply,
.BR sh ell,
and
.BR v isual.
Any errors in the start-up file cause the remaining lines in the file to
be ignored.
.SH \*(CM
The following is a complete list of \*(Ma commands:
.PP
.PD 0
.Cm ! \*(sh
Escape to the shell.
See "\s-1SHELL\s+1" (\*(EV).
.Cm # "" \fIcomment\fR
Null command (comment).
This may be useful in \*(mr files.
.Cm =
Print the current message number.
.Cm ?
Prints a summary of commands.
.Cm a lias \*(al \*(nm ...
.C g roup \*(al \*(nm ...
Declare an alias for the given names.
The names will be substituted
when
\*(al is used as a recipient.
Useful in the \*(mr file.
.Cm alt ernates \*(nm ...
Declares a list of alternate names for your login.
When responding to a message,
these names are removed from the list of recipients for the response.
With no arguments,
.BR alt ernates
prints the current list of alternate names.
See also "allnet" (\*(EV).
.Cm cd "" [\*(dr]
.C ch dir [\*(dr]
Change directory.
If \*(dr is not specified,
\s-1$HOME\s+1 is used.
.Cm c opy [\*(fn]
.C c opy \*(om \*(fn
Copy messages to the file without marking the messages as saved.
Otherwise equivalent to the
.BR s ave
command.
.Cm C opy \*(om
Save the specified messages in a file whose name is derived from the
author of the
message to be saved, without marking the messages as saved.
Otherwise equivalent to the
.BR S ave
command.
.Cm d elete \*(om
Delete messages from the \*(mx.
If "autoprint" is set,
the next message after the last one deleted is printed
(see \*(EV).
.Cm di scard [\*(hf ...]
.C ig nore [\*(hf ...]
Suppresses printing of the specified header fields when displaying messages
on the screen.
Examples of header fields to ignore are "status" and "cc."
The fields are included when the message is saved.
The
.BR P rint
and
.BR T ype
commands override this command.
.Cm dp "" \*(om
.C dt "" \*(om
Delete the specified messages from the \*(mx and print the next message
after the last one deleted.
Roughly equivalent to a
.BR d elete
command followed by a
.BR p rint
command.
.Cm ec ho \*(st ...
Echo the given strings (like
.IR echo (1)).
.Cm e dit \*(om
Edit the given messages.
The messages are placed in a temporary file and the "EDITOR" variable
is used to get the name of the editor
(see \*(EV).
Default editor is
.IR ed (1).
.Cm ex it
.C x it
Exit from \*(Ma,
without changing the \*(mx.
No messages are saved in the \*(mb (see also
.BR q uit).
.Cm fi le [\*(fn]
.C fold er [\*(fn]
Quit from the current file of messages and read in the specified file.
Several special characters are recognized when used as file names,
with the following substitutions:
.RS 10
.TP 6
%
the current \*(mx.
.TP
.RB % user
the \*(mx for
.BR user .
.TP
#
the previous file.
.TP
&
the current \*(mb.
.RE
.RS 5
Default file is the current \*(mx.
.RE
.Cm folders
Print the names of the files in the
directory set by the "folder" variable
(see \*(EV).
.Cm fo llowup [\*(ms]
Respond to a message,
recording the response in a file whose name is derived from the
author of the message.
Overrides the "record" variable, if set.
See also the
.BR F ollowup,
.BR S ave,
and
.BR C opy
commands and "outfolder" (\*(EV).
.Cm F ollowup \*(om
Respond to the first message in the \*(ml,
sending the message to the author of each message in the \*(ml.
The subject line is taken from the first message
and the response is recorded in a file whose name is derived
from the author of the first message.
See also the
.BR fo llowup,
.BR S ave,
and
.BR C opy
commands
and "outfolder" (\*(EV).
.Cm f rom \*(om
Prints the header summary for the specified messages.
.Cm g roup \*(al \*(nm ...
.C a lias \*(al \*(nm ...
Declare an alias for the given names.
The names will be substituted
when
\*(al is used as a recipient.
Useful in the \*(mr file.
.Cm h eaders [\*(ms]
Prints the page of headers which includes the message specified.
The "screen" variable sets the number of headers per page
(see \*(EV).
See also the
.B z
command.
.Cm hel p
Prints a summary of commands.
.Cm ho ld \*(om
.C pre serve \*(om
Holds the specified messages in the \*(mx.
.Cm i f \fIs\fR|\fIr\fR
.C "" \*(mcs
.C el se
.C "" \*(mcs
.C en dif
Conditional execution, where
.I s
will execute following \*(mcs, up to an
.BR el se
or
.BR en dif,
if the program is in
.I send
mode, and
.I r
causes the \*(mcs to be executed only in
.I receive
mode.
Useful in the \*(mr file.
.Cm ig nore \*(hf ...
.C di scard \*(hf ...
Suppresses printing of the specified header fields when displaying messages
on the screen.
Examples of header fields to ignore are "status" and "cc."
All fields are included when the message is saved.
The
.BR P rint
and
.BR T ype
commands override this command.
.Cm l ist
Prints all commands available.
No explanation is given.
.Cm m ail \*(nm ...
Mail a message to the specified users.
.Cm mb ox \*(om
Arrange for the given messages to end up in the standard \*(mb save file
when \*(Ma terminates normally.
See "MBOX" (\*(EV) for a description of this file.
See also the
.BR ex it
and
.BR q uit
commands.
.Cm n ext [\*(ms]
Go to next message matching \*(ms.
A \*(ml may be specified,
but in this case the first valid message in the list is the only one used.
This is useful for jumping to the next message from a specific user,
since the name would be taken as a command in the absence of a real command.
See the discussion of \*(mls above for a description of
possible message specifications.
.Cm pi pe \*(om [\*(sh]
.C | "" \*(om [\*(sh]
Pipe the message through the given \*(sh.
The message is treated as if it were read.
If no arguments are given,
the current message is piped through the command specified by the
value of the "cmd" variable.
If the "page" variable is set,
a form feed character is inserted after each message
(see \*(EV).
.Cm pre serve \*(om
.C ho ld \*(om
Preserve the specified messages in the \*(mx.
.Cm P rint \*(om
.C T ype \*(om
Print the specified messages on the screen,
including all header fields.
Overrides suppression of fields by the
.BR ig nore
command.
.Cm p rint \*(om
.C t ype \*(om
Print the specified messages.
If "crt" is set,
the messages longer than the number of lines specified by the
"crt" variable are paged through the command specified by the
"PAGER" variable.
The default command is
.IR pg (1)
(see \*(EV).
.Cm q uit
Exit from \*(Ma,
storing messages that were read in \*(mb and unread messages in the \*(mx.
Messages that have been explicitly saved in a file are deleted.
.Cm R eply \*(om
.C R espond \*(om
Send a response to the author of each message in the \*(ml.
The subject line is taken from the first message.
If "record" is set to a filename,
the response is saved at the end of that file (see \*(EV).
.Cm r eply [\*(ms]
.C r espond [\*(ms]
Reply to the specified message,
including all other recipients of the message.
If "record" is set to a filename,
the response is saved at the end of that file (see \*(EV).
.Cm S ave \*(om
Save the specified messages in a file whose name is derived from
the author of the first message.
The name of the file is taken to be the author's name with all
network addressing stripped off.
See also the
.BR C opy,
.BR fo llowup,
and
.BR F ollowup
commands and "outfolder" (\*(EV).
.Cm s ave [\*(fn]
.C s ave \*(om \*(fn
Save the specified messages in the given file.
The file is created if it does not exist.
The message is deleted from the \*(mx when
\*(Ma terminates unless "keepsave" is set
(see also \*(EV and the
.BR ex it
and
.BR q uit
commands).
.Cm se t
.C se t \*(nm
.C se t \*(nm=\*(st
.C se t \*(nm=\*(nu
Define a variable called \*(nm.
The variable may be given a null, string, or numeric value.
.BR Se t
by itself prints all defined variables and their values.
See \*(EV for detailed descriptions of the \*(Ma variables.
.Cm sh ell
Invoke an interactive shell (see also "SHELL" (\*(EV)).
.Cm si ze \*(om
Print the size in characters of the specified messages.
.Cm so urce \*(fn
Read commands from the given file and return to command mode.
.Cm to p \*(om
Print the top few lines of the specified messages.
If the "toplines" variable is set,
it is taken as the number of lines to print
(see \*(EV).
The default is 5.
.Cm tou ch \*(om
Touch the specified messages.
If any message in \*(ml is not specifically saved in a file,
it will be placed in the \*(mb upon normal termination.
See
.BR ex it
and
.BR q uit.
.Cm T ype \*(om
.C P rint \*(om
Print the specified messages on the screen,
including all header fields.
Overrides suppression of fields by the
.BR ig nore
command.
.Cm t ype \*(om
.C p rint \*(om
Print the specified messages.
If "crt" is set,
the messages longer than the number of lines specified by the
"crt" variable are paged through the command specified by the
"PAGER" variable.
The default command is
.IR pg (1)
(see \*(EV).
.Cm u ndelete \*(om
Restore the specified deleted messages.
Will only restore messages deleted in the current mail session.
If "autoprint" is set, the last message of those restored is printed
(see \*(EV).
.Cm uns et \*(nm ...
Causes the specified variables to be erased.
If the variable was imported from the execution environment (i.e., a
shell variable) then it cannot be erased.
.Cm ve rsion
Prints the current version and release date.
.Cm v isual \*(om
Edit the given messages with a screen editor.
The messages are placed in a temporary file and the "VISUAL" variable
is used to get the name of the editor
(see \*(EV).
.Cm w rite \*(om \*(fn
Write the given messages on the specified file,
minus the header and trailing blank line.
Otherwise equivalent to the
.BR s ave
command.
.Cm x it
.C ex it
Exit from \*(Ma,
without changing the \*(mx.
No messages are saved in the \*(mb (see also
.BR q uit).
.Cm z [+|-]
Scroll the header display forward or backward one screen\-full.
The number of headers displayed is set by the "screen" variable
(see \*(EV).
.PD
.SH \*(TE
The following commands may be entered only from
\fIinput mode\fR,
by beginning a line with the tilde escape character (~).
See
"escape" (\*(EV)
for changing this special character.
.PP
.PD 0
.Ti ! \*(sh
Escape to the shell.
.Ti .
Simulate end of file (terminate message input).
.Ti : \*(mc
.ti -5
.BR ~_\  \*(mc
.br
Perform the command-level request.
Valid only when sending a message while reading mail.
.Ti ?
Print a summary of tilde escapes.
.Ti A
Insert the autograph string "Sign" into the message
(see \*(EV).
.Ti a
Insert the autograph string "sign" into the message
(see \*(EV).
.Ti b \*(nm ...
Add the \*(nms to the blind carbon copy (Bcc) list.
.Ti c \*(nm ...
Add the \*(nms to the carbon copy (Cc) list.
.Ti d
Read in the \*(dl file.
See "DEAD" (\*(EV) for a description of this file.
.Ti e
Invoke the editor on the partial message.
See also "EDITOR" (\*(EV).
.Ti f \*(om
Forward the specified messages.
The messages are inserted into the message,
without alteration.
.Ti h
Prompt for Subject line and To, Cc, and Bcc lists.
If the field is displayed with an initial value,
it may be edited as if you had just typed it.
.Ti i \*(st
Insert the value of the named variable into the text of the message.
For example,
.B ~A
is equivalent to
.RB ' ~i \ Sign.'
.Ti m \*(om
Insert the specified messages into the letter,
shifting the new text to the right one tab stop.
Valid only when sending a message while reading mail.
.Ti p
Print the message being entered.
.Ti q
Quit from input mode by simulating an interrupt.
If the body of the message is not null,
the partial message is saved in \*(dl.
See "DEAD" (\*(EV) for a description of this file.
.Ti r \*(fn
.ti -5 
.BR ~<\  \*(fn
.br
.ti -5
.BR ~<\  !\*(sh
.br
Read in the specified file.
If the argument begins with an exclamation point (!),
the rest of the string is taken as an arbitrary shell command
and is executed,
with the standard output inserted into the message.
.Ti s \*(st ...
Set the subject line to \*(st.
.Ti t \*(nm ...
Add the given \*(nms to the To list.
.Ti v
Invoke a preferred screen editor on the partial message.
See also "VISUAL" (\*(EV).
.Ti w \*(fn
Write the partial message onto the given file,
without the header.
.Ti x
Exit as with
.B ~q
except the message is not saved in \*(dl.
.Ti | \*(sh
Pipe the body of the message through the given \*(sh.
If the \*(sh returns a successful exit status,
the output of the command replaces the message.
.PD
.SH \*(EV
The following are environment variables taken from the execution environment and
are not alterable within \*(Ma.
.PD 0
.Va \s-1HOME\s+1 \*(dr
The user's base of operations.
.Va \s-1MAILRC\s+1 \*(fn
The name of the start-up file.
Default is $HOME/.mailrc.
.PD
.PP
The following variables are internal \*(Ma variables.
They may be imported from the execution environment or
set via the
.BR se t
command at any time.
The
.BR uns et
command may be used to erase variables.
.PD 0
.V allnet
All network names whose last component (login name) match are treated as
identical.
This causes the \*(ml message specifications to behave similarly.
Default is
.BR noallnet .
See also the
.BR alt ernates
command and the "metoo" variable.
.V append
Upon termination, append messages to the end of the \*(mb file instead of prepending them.
Default is
.B noappend.
.V askcc
Prompt for the Cc list after message is entered.
Default is
.BR noaskcc .
.V asksub
Prompt for subject if it is not specified on the command line
with the
.B \-s
option.
Enabled by default.
.V autoprint
Enable automatic printing of messages after
.BR d elete
and
.BR u ndelete
commands.
Default is
.BR noautoprint .
.V bang
Enable the special-casing of exclamation points (!) in shell escape
command lines
as in
.IR vi (1).
Default is
.BR nobang .
.Va cmd \*(sh
Set the default command for the
.BR pi pe
command.
No default value.
.Va conv \fIconversion\fR
Convert uucp addresses to the specified
address style.
The only valid conversion now is
.IR internet ,
which requires a mail delivery program conforming to the RFC822
standard for electronic mail addressing.
Conversion is disabled by default.
See also
"sendmail" and the
.B \-U
command line option.
.Va crt \*(nu
Pipe messages having more than \fInumber\fR lines
through the command specified by the value of the "\s-1PAGER\s+1" variable
.RI ( pg (1)
by default).
Disabled by default.
.Va DEAD \*(fn
The name of the file in which to save partial letters
in case of untimely interrupt
or delivery errors.
Default is $HOME/dead.letter.
.V debug
Enable verbose diagnostics for debugging.
Messages are not delivered.
Default is
.BR nodebug .
.V dot
Take a period on a line by itself during input from a terminal as end-of-file.
Default is
.BR nodot .
.Va EDITOR \*(sh
The command to run when the
.BR e dit
or
.B ~e
command is used.
Default is
.IR ed (1).
.Va escape \fIc\fR
Substitute
.I c
for the ~ escape character.
.Va folder \*(dr
The directory for saving standard mail files.
User specified file names beginning with a plus (+)
are expanded by preceding the filename with
this directory name to obtain the real filename.
If \*(dr does not start with a slash (/),
$HOME is prepended to it.
In order to use the plus (+) construct on a
\*(Ma command line,
"folder" must be an exported
.I sh
environment variable.
There is no default for the "folder" variable.
See also "outfolder" below.
.V header
Enable printing of the header summary when entering \*(Ma.
Enabled by default.
.V hold
Preserve all messages that are read in the \*(mx instead of putting them
in the standard \*(mb save file.
Default is
.BR nohold .
.V ignore
Ignore interrupts while entering messages.
Handy for noisy dial-up lines.
Default is
.BR noignore .
.V ignoreeof
Ignore end-of-file during message input.
Input must be terminated by a period (.) on a line by itself
or by the
.B ~.
command.
Default is
.BR noignoreeof .
See also "dot" above.
.V keep
When the \*(mx is empty,
truncate it to zero length instead of removing it.
Disabled by default.
.V keepsave
Keep messages that have been saved in other files in the \*(mx
instead of deleting them.
Default is
.BR nokeepsave .
.Va \s-1MBOX\s+1 \*(fn
The name of the file to save messages which have been read.
The
.BR x it
command overrides this function,
as does saving the message explicitly in another file.
Default is $HOME/mbox.
.V metoo
If your login appears as a recipient,
do not delete it from the list.
Default is
.BR nometoo .
.Va \s-1LISTER\s+1 \*(sh
The command (and options) to use when listing the contents of the "folder"
directory.
The default is
.IR ls (1).
.V onehop
When responding to a message that was originally sent to several
recipients,
the other recipient addresses are normally forced to be relative to the
originating author's machine for the response.
This flag disables alteration of the recipients' addresses,
improving efficiency in a network where all machines can send directly
to all other machines (i.e., one hop away).
.V outfolder
Causes the files used to record outgoing messages to be located
in the directory specified by the "folder" variable unless the
pathname is absolute.
Default is
.BR nooutfolder .
See "folder" above and the
.BR S ave,
.BR C opy,
.BR fo llowup,
and
.BR F ollowup
commands.
.V page
Used with the
.BR pi pe
command to insert a form feed after each message sent through the pipe.
Default is
.BR nopage .
.Va \s-1PAGER\s+1 \*(sh
The command to use as a filter for paginating output.
This can also be used to specify the options to be used.
Default is
.IR pg (1).
.Va prompt \*(st
Set the \fIcommand mode\fR prompt to \*(st.
Default is "?\ ".
.V quiet
Refrain from printing the opening message and version when entering \*(Ma.
Default is
.BR noquiet .
.Va record \*(fn
Record all outgoing mail in \*(fn.
Disabled by default.
See also "outfolder" above.
.V save
Enable saving of messages in \*(dl on interrupt or delivery error.
See "DEAD" for a description of this file.
Enabled by default.
.Va screen \*(nu
Sets the number of lines in a screen\-full of headers for the
.BR h eaders
command.
.Va sendmail \*(sh
Alternate command for delivering messages.
Default is
.IR mail (1).
.V sendwait
Wait for background mailer to finish before returning.
Default is
.BR nosendwait .
.Va SHELL \*(sh
The name of a preferred command interpreter.
Default is
.IR sh (1).
.V showto
When displaying the header summary and the message is from you,
print the recipient's name instead of the author's name.
.Va sign \*(st
The variable inserted into the text of a message when the
.B ~a
(autograph) command is given.
No default
(see also
.B ~i
(\*(TE)).
.Va Sign \*(st
The variable inserted into the text of a message when the
.B ~A
command is given.
No default
(see also
.B ~i
(\*(TE)).
.Va toplines \*(nu
The number of lines of header to print with the
.BR to p
command.
Default is 5.
.Va \s-1VISUAL\s+1 \*(sh
The name of a preferred screen editor.
Default is
.IR vi (1).
.PD
.SH FILES
.ta \w'/usr/lib/mailx/mailx.help    'u
\s-1$HOME\s+1/.mailrc	personal start-up file
.br
\s-1$HOME\s+1/mbox	secondary storage file
.br
/usr/mail/*	post office directory
.br
/usr/lib/mailx/mailx.help*	help message files
.br
/usr/lib/mailx/mailx.rc	global start-up file
.br
/tmp/R[emqsx]*	temporary files
.SH SEE ALSO
mail(1),
pg(1),
ls(1).
.SH BUGS
Where \*(sh
is shown as valid,
arguments are not always allowed.
Experimentation is recommended.
.PP
Internal variables imported from the execution environment cannot be
.BR uns et.
.PP
The full internet addressing is not fully supported by \*(Ma.
The new standards need some time to settle down.
.PP
Attempts to send a message having a line consisting only of a ``.''
are treated as the end of the message by \f2mail\fR(1) (the standard
mail delivery program).
.\"	@(#)mailx.1	6.2 of 9/2/83
