.TH MAN 1
.SH NAME
man \- print entries in this manual
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B man
[ options ] [ section ] titles
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Man\^
locates and prints the entry of this manual named
.I title\^
in the specified
.IR section .
(For historical reasons, the word ``page''
is often used as a synonym for ``entry'' in this context.)\ 
The
.I title\^
is entered in lower case.
The
.I section\^
number may not have
a letter suffix.
If no
.I section\^
is specified, the whole manual is searched for
.I title\^
and all occurrences of it are printed.
.I Options\^
and their meanings are:
.PP
.PD 0
.TP 11
.BI \-T term\^
Print the entry as appropriate for
terminal type
.IR term .
For a list of recognized values of
.IR term ,
type
.BR "help term2" .
The default value of
.I term\^
is
.BR 450 .
.TP
.B \-w
Print on the standard output only the
.I "path names\^"
of the entries,
relative to
.BR /usr/catman ,
or to the current directory for
.B \-d
option.
.TP
.B \-d
Search the current directory rather than
.BR /usr/catman ;
requires the full file name (e.g.,
.BR cu.1c ,
rather than just
.BR cu ).
.TP
.B \-c
Causes
.I man\^
to invoke
.IR col (1);
note that
.IR col (1)
is invoked automatically by
.I man\^
unless
.I term\^
is one of
.BR 300 ,
.BR 300s ,
.BR 450 ,
.BR 37 ,
.BR 4000a ,
.BR 382 ,
.BR 4014 ,
.BR tek ,
.BR 1620 ,
and
.BR X .
.PD
.PP
.I Man\^
examines the environment variable
.SM
.B $TERM
[see
.IR environ (5)]
and attempts to select options
that adapt the output to the terminal being used.
The
.BI \-T term\^
option overrides the value of
.SM
.BR $TERM\*S ;
in particular, one should use
.B \-Tlp
when sending the output of
.I man\^
to a line printer.
.PP
.I Section\^
may be changed before each
.IR title .
.PP
As an example:
.IP
man \|man
.PP
would reproduce on the terminal this entry,
as well as any other entries named
.I man\^
that may exist in other sections of the manual.
.PP
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP \w'/usr/catman/?_man/man[1-8]/\(**\ \ \ \ 'u
/usr/catman/?_man/man[1-8]/\(**
Preformatted manual entries
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
term(5) in the \f2\s-1UNIX\s+1 System V Programmer Reference Manual\fR.
.SH CAVEAT
The
.I man\^
command prints manual entries that were formatted by
.I nroff\^
when the UNIX system was installed.
Entries are originally formatted with terminal type
.BR 37 ,
and are printed using the correct terminal filters
as derived from the
.BI \-T term\^
and
.SM
.B $TERM
settings.
Typesetting or other non-standard printing of manual entries
requires installation of
the UNIX system Documenter's Workbench.

