.TH NM 1
.SH NAME
\*pnm \- print name list of common object file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \*pnm
.RB [ \-o ]
.RB [ \-x ]
.RB [ \-h ]
.RB [ \-v ]
.RB [ \-n ]
.RB [ \-e ]
.RB [ \-f ]
.RB [ \-u ]
.RB [ \-V ]
.RB [ \-T ]
file-names
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I \*pnm\^
command
displays the symbol table of each
common object file
.IR file-name .
.I File-name\^
may be a relocatable or absolute common object file;
or it may be an archive of relocatable or absolute common object files.
For each symbol, the following information will be printed:
.PP
.TP 9
.B Name
The name of the symbol.
.TP 9
.B Value
Its value expressed as an offset or an address
depending on its storage class.
.TP 9
.B Class
Its storage class.
.nr C 1
.if '\*p'n3b' .nr C 0
.if '\*p'm32' .nr C 0
.if \nC \{\
.TP 9
.B Type
Its type and derived type.
If the symbol is an instance of a structure or of a union then the structure
or union tag will be given following the type (e.g., struct-tag).
If the symbol is an array, then the array dimensions will be given 
following the type (eg.,
.BR char[ n ][ m ] ).
Note that the object file must have been compiled with the \fB\-g\fR
option of the
.IR cc (1)
command for this information to appear.
.TP 9
.B Size
Its size in bytes, if available.
Note that the object file must have been compiled with the \fB\-g\fR
option of the
.IR cc (1)
command for this information to appear.
.TP 9
.B Line
The source line number at which it is defined, if available.
Note that the object file must have been compiled with the \fB\-g\fR
option of the
.IR cc (1)
command for this information to appear.
.TP 9
.B Section
For storage classes static and external,
the object file section containing the symbol (e.g., text, data or bss).
.DT
.br
.PP
The output of
.I \*pnm
may be controlled using the following options:
.PP
.TP 9
.B \-o
Print the value and size of a symbol in octal instead of decimal.
.PP
.TP 9
.B \-x
Print the value and size of a symbol in hexadecimal instead of decimal.
.PP
.TP 9
.B \-h
Do not display the output header data.
.PP
.TP 9
.B \-v
Sort external symbols by value before they are printed.
.PP
.TP 9
.B \-n
Sort external symbols by name before they are printed.
.PP
.TP 9
.B \-e
Print only external and static symbols.
.PP
.TP 9
.B \-f
Produce full output.  Print redundant symbols (.text, .data and .bss),
normally suppressed.
.TP 9
.B \-u
Print undefined symbols only.
.PP
.TP 9
.B \-V
Print the version of the \*pnm command executing on the standard error output.
.PP
.TP 9
.B \-T
By default,
.I \*pnm\^
prints the entire name of the symbols listed.
Since object files can have symbols names with an arbitrary number of 
characters, a name that is longer than the width of the column set aside
for names will overflow its column, forcing every column after the name
to be misaligned.  The 
.B \-T
option causes
.I \*pnm\^
to truncate every name which would otherwise overflow its column and
place an asterisk as the last character in the displayed name to mark
it as truncated.
.DT
.br
.PP
Options may be used in any order, either singly or in combination,
and may appear anywhere in the command line.
Therefore, both 
.B "\*pnm name \-e \-v"
and
.B "\*pnm \-ve name"
print the static and external symbols in
.IR name ,
with external symbols sorted by value.
.SH "FILES"
/usr/tmp/nm??????
.SH "CAVEATS"
When all the symbols are printed, they must be printed in the order they
appear in the symbol table in order to preserve scoping information.
Therefore, the
.B \-v
and
.B \-n
options should be used only in conjunction with the
.B \-e 
option.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\*pas(1),
\*pcc(1),
\*pld(1).
.br
a.out(4),
ar(4) in the
\f2\s-1UNIX\s+1 System V Programmer Reference Manual\fR.
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
.TP 9
``\*pnm:  name:  cannot open''
if
.I name
cannot be read.
.PP
.TP 9
``\*pnm:  name:  bad magic''
if
.I name
is not an appropriate common object file.
.PP
.TP 9
``\*pnm:  name:  no symbols''
if the symbols have been stripped from
.IR name .
.\"	@(#)nm.1	6.2 of 9/2/83
