.TH PACK 1
.SH NAME
pack, pcat, unpack \- compress and expand files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pack
[
.B \-
]
[
.B \-f
]
name .\|.\|.
.PP
.B pcat
name .\|.\|.
.PP
.B unpack
name .\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Pack\^
attempts to store the specified files in a compressed form.
Wherever possible (and useful), each input file
.I name\^
is replaced by a packed file
.IB name .z
with the same access modes, access and modified dates, and owner as those of
.IR name .
The
.B -f
option will force packing of
.IR name\^ .
This is useful for causing an entire directory to be packed
even if some of the files will not benefit.
If
.I pack\^
is successful,
.I name\^
will be removed.
Packed files
can be restored to their original form using
.I unpack\^
or
.IR pcat .
.PP
.I Pack\^
uses Huffman (minimum redundancy) codes on a byte-by-byte
basis.
If the
.B \-
argument is used,
an internal flag is set that causes the number of times each
byte is used, its relative frequency, and the code for the byte
to be printed on the standard output.
Additional occurrences of
.B \-
in place of
.I name\^
will cause the internal flag to be set and reset.
.PP
The amount of compression obtained depends on the size of the
input file and the character frequency distribution.
Because a decoding
tree forms the first part of each
.B .z
file, it is usually not worthwhile
to pack files smaller than three blocks, unless the character frequency
distribution is very skewed, which may occur with printer plots or pictures.
.PP
Typically, text files are reduced to 60-75% of their original size.
Load modules, which use a larger character set and have a more
uniform distribution of characters, show little compression, the
packed versions being about 90% of the original size.
.PP
.I Pack\^
returns a value that is the number of files that it failed to
compress.
.PP
No packing will occur if:
.PP
.RS
the file appears to be already packed;
.br
the file name has more than 12 characters;
.br
the file has links;
.br
the file is a directory;
.br
the file cannot be opened;
.br
no disk storage blocks will be saved by packing;
.br
a file called
.IB name .z
already exists;
.br
the
.B .z
file cannot be created;
.br
an I/O error occurred during processing.
.PP
.RE
The last segment of the file name must contain no more than 12
characters to allow space for the appended
.B .z
extension.
Directories cannot be compressed.
.PP
.I Pcat\^
does for packed files what
.IR cat (1)
does for ordinary files,
except that
.I pcat\^
can not be used as a filter.
The specified files are unpacked and written to the standard output.
Thus to view a packed file named
.IB name .z
use:
.PP
.RS
pcat name.z
.RE
or just:
.RS
pcat name
.bp
.PP
.RE
To make an unpacked copy, say
.IR nnn ,
of a packed file named
.IB name .z
(without destroying
\f2name\^\fP\f3.z\fP)
use the command:
.PP
.RS
pcat name >nnn
.PP
.RE
.I Pcat\^
returns the number of files it was unable
to unpack.
Failure may occur if:
.PP
.RS
the file name (exclusive of the
.BR .z )
has more than 12 characters;
.br
the file cannot be opened;
.br
the file does not appear to be the output of
.IR pack .
.RE
.PP
.I Unpack\^
expands files created by
.IR pack .
For each file
.I name\^
specified in the command, a search is made for a file called
.IB name .z
(or just
.IR name ,
if
.I name\^
ends in
.BR .z ).
If this file appears to be a packed file, it is replaced by
its expanded version.
The new file has the
.B .z
suffix stripped from its name, and has the same access modes,
access and modification dates, and owner as those of the packed file.
.PP
.I Unpack\^
returns a value that is the number of files it was unable
to unpack.
Failure may occur for the same reasons that it may in
.IR pcat ,
as well as for the following:
.PP
.RS
a file with the ``unpacked'' name already exists;
.br
if the unpacked file cannot be created.
.PP
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
cat(1).
.\"	@(#)pack.1	6.2 of 9/2/83
