.TH PASSWD 1
.SH NAME
passwd \- change login password
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B passwd
[ name ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This command changes or installs a password
associated with the login
.IR name .
.P
Ordinary users may change only the password which corresponds to their 
login 
.IR name .
.P
.IR Passwd
prompts ordinary users for their old password, if any.
It then prompts for the new password twice.  
The first time the new password is entered
.IR passwd
checks to see if
the old password has ``aged'' sufficiently.  
If ``aging'' is insufficient the new password is rejected and 
.IR passwd
terminates;  see 
.IR passwd (4).
.P
Assuming ``aging'' is sufficient, a check is made to insure 
that the new password meets construction requirements.  When the
new password is entered a second time the two copies of the new 
password are compared.
If the two copies are not identical the cycle of prompting for the 
new password is repeated for at most two more times.
.P
Passwords must be constructed to meet the following requirements:
.RS
.sp
Each password must have at least six characters.
Only the first eight characters are significant.
.P
Each password must contain at least two alphabetic
characters and at least one numeric or special character.
In this case, ``alphabetic'' means upper and lower
case letters.
.P
Each password must differ from the user's login 
.IR name
and any reverse
or circular shift of that login
.IR name .
For comparison purposes, an upper case letter and its corresponding lower 
case letter are equivalent.
.P
New passwords must differ from the old by at least three characters.
For comparison purposes, an upper case letter and its corresponding lower 
case letter are equivalent.
.RE
.P
One whose effective user ID is zero is called a super-user; see 
.IR id (1),
and 
.IR su (1).
Super-users may change any password; hence, 
.IR passwd
does not prompt
super-users for the old password.
Super-users are not forced to comply with password aging and password  
construction requirements.
A super-user can create a null password by entering a carriage return in 
response to the prompt for a new password.
.SH FILES
/etc/passwd
.SH "SEE ALSO"
login(1), id(1), su(1).
.br
crypt(3C), passwd(4) in the
\f2\s-1UNIX\s+1 System V Programmer Reference Manual\fR.
.\"	@(#)passwd.1	6.2 of 9/2/83
