.TH PS 1
.SH NAME
ps \- report process status
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ps
[ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Ps\^
prints certain information about active
processes.
Without
.IR options ,
information is printed about
processes associated with the current terminal.
The output consists of a short listing containing only the process ID,
terminal identifier, cumulative execution time, and the command name.
Otherwise, the information that is displayed is controlled
by the selection of
.IR options .
.PP
\fIOptions\fP using lists as arguments can have the list specified
in one of two forms: a list of identifiers separated from one
another by a comma, or a list of identifiers enclosed
in double quotes and separated from one another by a comma and/or
one or more spaces.
.PP
The \fIoptions\fP are:
.PP
.PD 0
.TP 12
.B \-e
Print information about all processes.
.TP
.B \-d
Print information about all processes, except process group leaders.
.TP
.B \-a
Print information about all processes, except process
group leaders and processes not associated with a terminal.
.TP
.B \-f
Generate a
.I full\^
listing.
(See
below for meaning of columns in a full listing).
.TP
.B \-l
Generate a
.I long\^
listing.
See below.
.TP
.BI \-c " corefile\^"
Use the file
.I corefile\^
in place of
.BR /dev/mem .
.TP
.BI \-s " swapdev\^"
Use the file
.I swapdev\^
in place of
.BR /dev/swap .
This is useful when examining a
.IR corefile ;
a
.I swapdev\^
of
.B /dev/null\^
will cause the user block to
be zeroed out.
.TP
.BI \-n " namelist\^"
The argument will be taken as the name of an alternate
system
.I namelist\^
file in place of
\fB/unix\fP.
.TP
.BI \-t " termlist\^"
Restrict listing to data about the
processes associated with the terminals given in
.IR termlist .
Terminal identifiers may be specified in one of two forms:  the device's
file name (e.g., \fBtty04\fP) or if the device's file name starts
with \fBtty\fP, just the digit identifier (e.g., \fB04\fP).
.TP
.BI \-p " proclist\^"
Restrict listing to data about
processes whose process
.SM ID
numbers are given
in
.IR proclist .
.TP
.BI \-u " uidlist\^"
Restrict listing to data about processes
whose user
.SM ID
numbers or login names are given in
.IR uidlist .
In the listing, the numerical user
.SM ID
will be printed
unless the
.B \-f
option is used, in which case
the login name
will be printed.
.TP
.BI \-g " grplist\^"
Restrict listing to data about processes
whose process group leaders are given in
.IR grplist .
.PD
.PP
The column headings and the meaning of the columns in a
.I ps\^
listing
are given below; the letters
.B f
and
.B l
indicate the
option
.RI ( full\^
or
.IR long )
that causes the corresponding heading to appear;
.B all
means that the heading
always appears.
Note that these two options determine
only
what information is provided for a process; they do
.I not\^
determine which processes will be listed.
.bp
.ta .65i
.ne 7
.PP
.PD 0
.TP 16
.SM
.BR F\*S "	(l)"
Flags (octal and additive) associated with the process:
.RS 19
.TP 7
\  0
swapped;
.TP 7
\  1
in core;
.TP 7
\  2
system process;
.TP 7
\  4
locked-in core (e.g., for physical
.SM I/O\*S);
.TP 7
\ 10
being swapped;
.TP 7
\ 20
being traced by another process;
.TP 7
\ 40
another tracing flag;
.TP 7
100
text pointer valid;
.TP 7
200
process is partially swapped.
.RE
.TP
.SM
.BR S\*S "	(l)"
The state of the process:
.RS 20
.TP 6
0
non-existent;
.TP 6
S
sleeping;
.TP 6
W
waiting;
.TP 6
R
running;
.TP 6
I
intermediate;
.TP 6
Z
terminated;
.TP 6
T
stopped;
.TP 6
X
growing.
.RE
.br
.ne 2
.TP
.SM
.BR UID\*S "	(f,l)"
The user
.SM ID
number of the process owner;
the login name
is printed under the
.B \-f
option.
.TP
.SM
.BR PID\*S "	(all)"
The process
.SM ID
of the process; it is possible to kill a process
if you know this datum.
.TP
.SM
.BR PPID\*S "	(f,l)"
The process
.SM ID
of the parent process.
.TP
.SM
.BR C\*S "	(f,l)"
Processor utilization for scheduling.
.TP
.SM
.BR PRI\*S "	(l)"
The priority of the
process; higher numbers mean lower priority.
.TP
.SM
.BR NI\*S "	(l)"
Nice value; used in priority computation.
.TP
.SM
.BR ADDR\*S "	(l)"
The memory address of the process
(a pointer to the segment table array on the AT&T 3B20S computer),
if resident;
otherwise, the disk address.
.TP
.SM
.BR SZ\*S "	(l)"
The size in blocks of the core image of the process.
.TP
.SM
.BR WCHAN\*S "	(l)"
The event for which the process is waiting or sleeping;
if blank, the process is running.
.TP
.SM
.BR STIME\*S "	(f)"
Starting time of the process.
.TP
.SM
.BR TTY\*S "	(all)"
The controlling terminal for the process.
.TP
.SM
.BR TIME\*S "	(all)"
The cumulative execution time for the process.
.TP
.SM
.BR CMD\*S "	(all)"
The command name; the full command name and its arguments are printed
under the
.B \-f
option.
.DT
.PD
.PP
A process that has exited and has a parent, but has not
yet been waited for by the parent, is marked
.BR <defunct> .
.PP
Under the
.B \-f
option,
.I ps\^
tries to determine the command name
and arguments given when the process was created
by examining memory or the swap area.
Failing this, the command name, as it 
would appear without the
.B \-f
option, is printed in square brackets.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP "\w'/etc/ps_data\ \ \ 'u"
/unix
system namelist
.TP
/dev/mem
memory
.TP
/dev/swap
the default swap device
.TP
/etc/passwd
supplies \s-1UID\s+1 information
.TP
/etc/ps_data
internal data structure
.TP
/dev
searched to find terminal (``tty'') names
.DT
.PD
.bp
.SH SEE ALSO
acctcom(1), kill(1), nice(1).
.SH BUGS
Things can change while
.I ps\^
is running; the picture it gives is only a close
approximation to reality.
Some data printed for defunct processes are irrelevant.
.\"	@(#)ps.1	6.3 of 9/2/83
