.TH RJESTAT 1C
.SH NAME
rjestat \- \s-1RJE\s0 status report and interactive status console
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rjestat
.RI " [ " host " ]\|.\|.\|."
.RI " [ \fB\-s\fP" host " ]"
.RI " [ \fB\-c\fP" "host cmd" " ]" 
.RI " [ \fB\-j\fP" "host jobname" " ]\|\|.\|."
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Rjestat\^
provides a method of determining the status of an \s-1RJE\s0 link
and of simulating an \s-1IBM\s0 remote console (with \s-1UNIX\s0 system features added).
When invoked with no arguments,
.I rjestat\^
reports the current status of all the \s-1RJE\s0 links connected to
the \s-1UNIX\s0 system.  The options are:
.PP
.TP "\w'-chost cmd  'u"
.I host\^
Print the status of the line to
.IR host .
.I Host\^
is the pseudonym for a particular \s-1IBM\s0 system.
It can be any name that corresponds to one in the 
first column of the \s-1RJE\s0 configuration file.
.TP
.BI \-s host\^
After all the arguments have been processed, start an
interactive status console to
.IR host .
.TP
.BI \-c "host cmd\^"
Interpret
.I cmd\^
as if it were entered in status console mode to
.IR host .
See below for the proper format of
.IR cmd .
.TP
.BI \-j "host jobname\^"
Print all status pertaining to a user job with name
.I jobname\^
that has been sent by the
.I host\^
system to the rje system.
.PP
In status console mode,
.I rjestat\^
prompts with the
host pseudonym followed by
.B :
whenever it is ready to accept a command.
Commands are terminated with a new-line.
A line that begins with
.B !
is sent to the \s-1UNIX\s0 system shell for execution.
A line that begins with the letter
.B q
terminates
.IR rjestat .
All other input lines are assumed to have the form:
.PP
.RS
.IR ibmcmd " [ " redirect " ]"
.RE
.PP
.I Ibmcmd\^
is any \s-1IBM\s0 \s-1JES\s0 or \s-1HASP\s0 command.
Only the super-user or
.B rje
login can send commands
other than display or inquiry commands.
.I Redirect\^
is a pipeline or a redirection to a file
(e.g., ``> file'' or `` \(or grep ...'').
The \s-1IBM\s0 response is written to the pipeline or file.
If
.I redirect\^
is not present, the response is written to the standard output of
.IR rjestat .
.PP
An interrupt signal (\s-1DEL\s0 or \s-1BREAK\s0) will cancel the command
in progress and cause
.I rjestat\^
to return to the command input mode.
.SH EXAMPLE
The following command reports the status of all the card
readers attached to
host A, remote 5.
.SM JES\*S2
is assumed.
.PP
.RS
rjestat  \-cA  \(fm$du,rmt5  \(bv  grep  \s-1RD\s+1\(fm
.RE
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The message ``\s-1RJE\s0 error: ...'' indicates that
.I rjestat\^
found an inconsistency in the \s-1RJE\s0 system.
This may be transient but should be reported to the site administrator.
.SH FILES
.TP "\w'/usr/rje/lines  'u"
/usr/rje/lines
\s-1RJE\s0 configuration file
.TP
resp
host response file
that exists in the
.SM RJE
subsystem directory (e.g.,
.BR /usr/rje1 ).
.SH SEE ALSO
send(1C).
.\"	@(#)rjestat.1c	6.2 of 9/2/83
