.TH SAG 1G
.SH NAME
sag \- system activity graph
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "sag "
[ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Sag
graphically displays the system activity data
stored in a binary data file by a previous
.IR sar (1)
run.
Any of the
.I sar
data items may be plotted
singly, or in combination; as cross plots, or versus time.
Simple arithmetic combinations of data may be specified.
.I Sag
invokes 
.I sar
and finds the desired data by string-matching the data column header
(run 
.I sar
to see what is available).
These \fIoptions\fP are passed through to 
.IR sar :
.TP 9
\fB\-s \fItime\fR
Select data later than
.I time
in the form hh\|[\^:mm\^]\^.
Default is 08:00.
.TP 9
\fB\-e \fItime\fR
Select data up to
.IR time .
Default is 18:00.
.TP 9
\fB\-i \fIsec\fR
Select data at intervals as close as possible to \fIsec \fRseconds.
.TP 9
\fB\-f \fIfile\fR
Use \fIfile \fRas the data source for \fIsar\fR.
Default is the current daily data file \fB/usr/adm/sa/sa\fIdd\fR.
.P
Other \fIoptions\fP:
.TP 9
\fB\-T \fIterm\fR
Produce output suitable for terminal \fIterm\fR.
See \fItplot\fR(1G) for known terminals.
If
.I term
is
.BR vpr ,
output is processed by
.B vpr \-p
and queued to a Versatec printer.
Default for
.I term
is
.BR \s-1$TERM\s+1 .
.TP 9
.BI "\-x\0" spec
x axis specification with
.I spec
in the form:
.RS
"name\|[op \|name]\|.\|.\|.\|[lo \|hi]"
.RE
.TP 9
.BI "\-y\0" spec
y axis specification with
.I spec
in the same form as above.
.P
\fIName\fR is either a string that will match a column header in the \fIsar \fR
report, with an optional device name in square brackets,
e.g., \fBr+w/s[dsk\-1]\fR, or an integer value.
\fIOp \fR is \fB + \- \(**\fR or \fB/ \fRsurrounded by blanks.
Up to five names may be specified.
Parentheses are not recognized.
Contrary to custom,
.BR "\0+\0" "and" "\0\-\0"
have precedence over
.BR "\0\(**\0" "and" "\0/" "."
Evaluation is left to right.
Thus
A\0/\0A\0+\0B\0\(**\0100
is evaluated (A/(A+B))\(**100,
and
A\0+\0B\0/\0C\0+\0D
is (A+B)/(C+D).
.IR "Lo " "and " "hi "
are optional numeric scale limits.
If unspecified, they are deduced from the data.
.P
A single
.I spec
is permitted for the x axis.
If unspecified, \fItime\fP is used.
Up to 5
\fIspec\fR's
separated by
.B \|;\|
may be given for
.BR \-y .
Enclose the
.BR "\-x " "and " "\-y"
arguments in
\fB"\|"\fR
if blanks or \fB\\\fR<\s-1CR\s+1> are included.
The
.B \-y
default is:
.PP
.RS 0
\fB\-y\0"%usr\00\0100;\0%usr\0+\0%sys\00\0100;\0%usr\0+\0%sys\0+\0%wio\00\0100"\fR
.RE
.SH EXAMPLES
To see today's
.SM CPU
utilization:
.RS
sag
.RE
.P
To see activity over 15 minutes of all disk drives:
.RS
TS=\*`date\0+%H:%M\*`
.br
sar\0\-o\0tempfile\060\015
.br
TE=\*`date\0+%H:%M\*`
.br
sag\0\-f\0tempfile\0\-s\0$TS\0\-e\0$TE\0\-y\0"r+w/s[dsk]"
.RE
.SH FILES
.TP 22
/usr/adm/sa/sa\fIdd\fR
daily data file for day \fIdd\fR.
.SH SEE ALSO
sar(1), tplot(1G).
.\"	@(#)sag.1g	6.2 of 9/2/83
