.TH SAR 1 
.SH NAME
sar \- system activity reporter
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sar
.RB [\| \-ubdycwaqvmprA\| ]
.RB [\| \-o\0 file\|]
t [ n ]
.PP
.B sar
.RB [\| \-ubdycwaqvmprA\| ]
.RB [\| \-s\0 time\|]
.RB [\| \-e\0 time\|]
.RB [\| \-i\0 sec\|]
.RB [\| \-f\0 file\|]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IR Sar,
in the first instance,
samples cumulative activity counters in the operating system
at
.I n
intervals of
.I t
seconds.
If the
.B \-o
option is specified, it saves
the samples in
.I file
in binary format.
The default value of
.I n
is 1.
In the second instance, with no sampling interval specified,
.B sar
extracts data from a previously
recorded
.IR file,
either the one specified
by
.B \-f
option
or, by default,
the standard system activity daily data file
.BI /usr/adm/sa/sa dd\^
for the current day
.IR dd.
The starting and ending times of the report
can be bounded via the
.B \-s
and
.B \-e
.I time
arguments of the form
.IR hh [: mm [: ss ]].\^
The
.B \-i
option selects records at
.I sec
second intervals.
Otherwise, all intervals found in the data file are reported.
.PP
In either case,
subsets of data to be printed are specified by option:
.PP
.PD 0
.TP 5
.B \-u
Report
.SM CPU
utilization (the default):
.br
%usr, %sys, %wio, %idle \- portion of time running in user mode,
running in system mode, idle with some process waiting for block 
.SM I/O,
and otherwise idle.
.TP
.B \-b
Report buffer activity:
.br
bread/s, bwrit/s \- transfers per second of data between system buffers
and disk or other block devices;
.br
lread/s, lwrit/s \- accesses of system buffers;
.br
%rcache, %wcache \- cache hit ratios, e. g., 1 \- bread/lread;
.br
pread/s, pwrit/s \- transfers via raw (physical) device mechanism.
.TP
.B \-d
Report activity for each block device, e. g., disk or tape drive:
.br
%busy, avque \- portion of time device was busy servicing a transfer request,
average number of requests outstanding during that time;
.br
r+w/s, blks/s \- number of data transfers from or to device,
number of bytes transferred in 512-byte units;
.br
avwait, avserv \- average time in ms. 
that transfer requests wait idly on queue,
and average time to be serviced 
(which for disks includes 
seek, rotational latency and data transfer times).
.TP
.B \-y
Report TTY device activity:
.br
rawch/s, canch/s, outch/s \- input character rate,
input character rate processed by canon,
output character rate;
.br
rcvin/s, xmtin/s, mdmin/s \- receive, transmit and modem interrupt rates.
.TP
.B \-c
Report system calls:
.br
scall/s \- system calls of all types;
.br
sread/s, swrit/s, fork/s, exec/s \- specific system calls;
.br
rchar/s, wchar/s \- characters transferred by read and write
system calls.
.TP
.B \-w
Report system swapping and switching activity:
.br
swpin/s, swpot/s, bswin/s, bswot/s \- number of transfers
and number of 512-byte units transferred for swapins
and swapouts
(including initial loading of some programs);
.br
pswch/s \- process switches.
.TP
.B \-a
Report use of file access system routines:
.br
iget/s, namei/s, dirblk/s.
.TP
.B \-q
Report average queue length while occupied, and % of time occupied:
.br
runq-sz, %runocc \- run queue of processes in memory and runnable;
.br
swpq-sz, %swpocc \- swap queue of processes swapped out but ready to run.
.TP
.B \-v
Report status of process, i-node, file,
record lock and file header tables:
.br
proc-sz, inod-sz, file-sz, lock-sz, fhdr-sz \- entries/size
for each table, evaluated once at sampling point;
.br
ov \- overflows that occur between sampling points for each table.
.TP
.B \-m
Report message and semaphore activities:
.br
msg/s, sema/s \- primitives per second.
.TP
.B \-p
Report paging activity:
.br
vflt/s, pflt/s, pgfil/s, rclm/s \-number of address translation faults,
protection faults, page-ins from file system and page reclaims occurring per
second.
.TP
.B \-r
Report free swap and memory space:
.br
freemem \- number of free pages of memory;
freeswp \- number of free blocks of swap space;
the free space reported is necessarily contiguous.
.TP
.B \-A
Report all data.
Equivalent to 
.BR \-udqbwcayvmpr .
.SH EXAMPLES
To see today's
.SM CPU
activity so far:
.PP
.RS
sar
.RE
.PP
To watch
.SM CPU
activity evolve for 10 minutes and save data:
.PP
.RS
sar \|\-o temp 60 10
.RE
.PP
To later review disk and tape activity from that period:
.PP
.RS
sar \|\-d \|\-f temp
.RE
.SH FILES
.RI /usr/adm/sa/sa dd\^
daily data file, where
.I dd\^
are digits representing the day of the month.
.SH SEE ALSO
sag(1G).
.br
sar(1M) in the
.I
\f2\s-1UNIX\s+1 System V Administrator Reference Manual\fR.
.\"	@(#)sar.1	6.3 of 1/4/84


