.TH SDB 1
.SH NAME
sdb \- symbolic debugger
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sdb
[\fB\-w\fR] [\fB\-W\fR] [ objfil [ corfil [ directory-list ] ] ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Sdb\^
is a symbolic debugger that can be used with C and F77 programs.
It may be used to examine their object files and core files and to provide
a controlled environment for their execution.
.PP
.I Objfil\^
is normally an executable program file
which has been compiled with the
.B \-g
(debug) option;
if it has not been compiled with the
.B \-g
option, or if it is not an executable file,
the symbolic capabilities of
.I sdb\^
will be limited,
but the file can still be examined
and the program debugged.
The default for
.I objfil\^
is
.BR a.out .
.I Corfil\^
is assumed to be a core image file produced after
executing
.IR objfil ;
the default for
.I corfil\^
is
.BR core .
The core file need not be present.
A
.B \-
in place of
.I corfil\^
will force
.I sdb\^
to ignore any core image file.
The colon separated list of directories
(\f2directory-list\fR) is used to locate
the source files used to build \f2objfil\fR.
.PP
It is useful to know that at any time there is a
.I "current line\^"
and
.IR "current file" .
If
.I corfil\^
exists then they are initially set to the line and file
containing the source statement at which the process terminated.
Otherwise, they are set to the first line in
.IR main ( ).
The current line and file may be changed with the source file
examination commands.
.PP
By default, warnings are provided if
the source files used in producing
.I objfil
cannot be found,
or are newer than
.IR objfil .
This checking feature
and the accompanying warnings
may be disabled by the use of the
.B \-W
flag.
.PP
Names of variables are written just as they are in C or F77.
Note that names in C are now of arbitrary length,
\f2sdb\fR will no longer truncate names.
Variables local to a procedure may be accessed using the form
.IB procedure : variable\fR.
If no procedure name is given, the procedure containing the
current line is used by default.
.P
It is also possible to refer to structure members as
.IB variable . member\fR,
pointers to structure members as
.IB variable \(mi> member
and array elements
as
.IB variable [ number ]\fR.
Pointers may be dereferenced by using the form
\fIpointer\fB[\fR0\fB]\fR.
Combinations of these forms may also be used.
F77
common variables may be referenced by using the name
of the common block instead of the structure name.
Blank common variables may be named by the form
.BI . variable\fR.
A number may be used in place of a structure variable name,
in which case the number is viewed as the address of the structure,
and the template used for the structure is that of the last structure
referenced by
.I sdb\fR.
An unqualified structure variable may also be used with various commands.
Generally,
.I sdb
will interpret a structure as a set of variables.
Thus,
.I sdb
will display the values of all the elements of a structure
when it is requested to display a structure.
An exception to this interpretation occurs when displaying variable
addresses.
An entire structure does have an address, and it is this
value
.I sdb 
displays,
not the addresses of individual elements.
.P
Elements of a multidimensional array may be referenced as
.IB variable [ number ][ number ]...\fR,
or as
.IB variable [ number,number,... ]\fR.
In place of
.I number\fR,
the form
.IB number ; number
may be used to indicate a range of values,
.B \(**
may be used to indicate all legitimate values for that subscript,
or subscripts may be omitted entirely if they are the last subscripts
and the full range of values is desired.
As with structures,
.I sdb
displays all the values of an array or of the section of an array if
trailing subscripts are omitted.
It displays only the address of the array itself or of the section
specified by the user if subscripts are omitted.
A multidimensional parameter in an
F77
program cannot be displayed as an array,
but it is actually a pointer, whose value is the location of the array.
The array itself can be accessed symbolically from the calling function.
.P
A particular instance of a variable on the stack
may be referenced by using the form
.IB procedure : variable , number\fR.
All the variations mentioned in naming variables may be used.
.IB Number\^
is the occurrence of the specified procedure on the stack,
counting the top, or most current,
as the first.
If no procedure is specified, the procedure currently executing
is used by default.
.PP
It is also possible to specify a variable by its address.
All forms of integer constants which are valid in C may be used, so that
addresses may be input in decimal, octal or hexadecimal.
.PP
Line numbers in the source program are referred to as
.IB file-name : number
or
.IB procedure : number\fR.
In either case the number is relative to the beginning of the file.
If no procedure or file name is given,
the current file is used by default.
If no number is given,
the first line of the named procedure or file is used.
.PP
While a process is running under
.IR sdb ,
all addresses refer to the executing program;
otherwise they refer to
.I objfil\^
or
.I corfil\^.
An initial argument of
.B  \-w
permits overwriting locations in
.I objfil\^.
.SS Addresses
The address in a file associated with
a written address is determined by a mapping
associated with that file.
Each mapping is represented by two triples
.RI ( "b1, e1, f1" )
and
.RI ( "b2, e2, f2" )
and the
.I file address\^
corresponding to a written
.I address\^
is calculated as follows:
.PP
.RS
.IR b1 \*(LE address < e1
\*(IM
.IR "file address" = address + f1\-b1
.RE
otherwise
.PP
.RS
.IR b2 \*(LE address < e2
\*(IM
.IR "file address" = address + f2\-b2,
.RE
.PP
otherwise, the requested
.I address\^
is not legal.
In some cases (e.g., for programs with separated I and D
space) the two segments for a file may overlap.
.PP
The initial setting of both mappings is suitable for
normal
.B a.out 
and
.B core 
files.
If either file is not of the kind expected then, for that file,
.I b1\^
is set to 0,
.I e1\^
is set to
the maximum file size,
and
.I f1\^
is set to 0; in this way the whole
file can be examined with no address translation.
.PP
In order for
.I sdb\^
to be used on large files,
all appropriate values are kept as signed 32-bit integers.
.SS Commands
.PP
The commands for examining data in the program are:
.TP 5
.B t
Print a stack trace of the terminated or halted program.
.TP 5
.B T
Print the top line of the stack trace.
.TP 5
.IB variable / clm
Print the value of
.I variable\^
according to
length
.I l\^
and format 
.IR m .
A numeric count
.I c
indicates that a region of memory, beginning at the address
implied by
.IR variable ,
is to be displayed.
The length specifiers are:
.RS
.RS
.PD 0
.TP
.BI b\^
one byte
.TP
.BI h\^
two bytes (half word)
.TP
.BI l\^
four bytes (long word)
.RE
.PD
.br
.ne 5
.PP
Legal values for
.I m\^
are:
.RS
.PD 0
.TP
.BI c\^
character
.TP
.BI d\^
decimal
.TP
.BI u\^
decimal, unsigned
.TP
.BI o\^
octal
.TP
.BI x\^
hexadecimal
.TP
.BI f\^
32-bit single precision floating point
.TP
.BI g\^
64-bit double precision floating point
.TP
.BI s\^
Assume
.I variable\^
is a string pointer and print characters starting at the
address pointed to by the variable.
.TP
.BI a\^
Print characters starting at the variable's address.
This format may not be used with register variables.
.TP
.BI p\^
pointer to procedure
.TP
.BI i\^
disassemble machine-language instruction
with addresses printed numerically and symbolically.
.TP
.BI I\^
disassemble machine-language instruction
with addresses just printed numerically.
.RE
.PD
The length specifiers are only effective with the formats
\fBc\fP, \fBd\fP, \fBu\fP, \fBo\fP and \fBx\fP.
Any of the specifiers,
\fIc\fP, \fIl\fP, and \fIm\fP,
may be omitted.
If
all are omitted,
.I sdb
choses a length and a format suitable for the variable's
type as declared in the program.
If
.I m
is specified, then this format is used for displaying the variable.
A length specifier determines the output length of the value
to be displayed, sometimes resulting in truncation.
A count specifier
.I c
tells
.I sdb
to display that many units of memory, beginning at
the address of
.IR variable .
The number of bytes in one such unit of memory is determined by
the length specifier
.IR l ,
or if no length is given,
by the size associated with the
.IR variable.
If a count specifier is used for the
.B s
or
.B a
command, then that many characters are printed.
Otherwise successive characters are printed until either
a null byte is reached
or 128 characters are printed.
The last variable may be redisplayed with the command
.BR ./ .
.PP
The
.IR sh (1)
metacharacters 
.B \(**
and
.B ?
may be used within procedure and variable names,
providing a limited form of pattern matching.
If no procedure name is given, variables local to the current
procedure and global variables are matched;
if a procedure name is specified then
only variables local to that procedure are matched.
To match only global variables,
the form
.BI : pattern\^
is used.
.RE
.TP 5
.PD 0
.IB linenumber ? lm
.TP 5
\fIvariable:\fB?\fIlm\fR
.PD
Print the value at the address
from
.BR a.out
or I space
given by
.I linenumber\^
or
.IR variable
(procedure name),
according to the format
.IR lm .
The default format is `i'.
.TP 5
.PD 0
.IB variable = lm
.TP 5
.IB linenumber = lm
.TP 5
.IB number = lm
.PD
Print the address of
.I variable\^
or
.IR linenumber ,
or the value of
.IR number ,
in the format specified by
.IR lm .
If no format is given, then
.B lx
is used.
The last variant of this command provides a convenient way to convert
between decimal, octal and hexadecimal.
.TP 5
.IB variable ! value
Set
.I variable\^
to the given
.IR value .
The value may be a number, a character constant or a variable.
The value must be well defined;
expressions which produce more than one value, such as structures,
are not allowed.
Character constants are denoted
.BI ' character\fR.
Numbers are viewed as integers unless a decimal point or exponent
is used.
In this case, they are treated as having the type double.
Registers are viewed as integers.
The
.I variable
may be an expression which indicates more than one variable,
such as an array or structure name.
If the address of a variable is given,
it is regarded as the address of a variable of type
.IR int .
C
conventions are used in any type conversions necessary
to perform the indicated assignment.
.TP 5
.B x
Print the machine registers and
the current machine-language instruction.
.TP 5
.B X
Print the current machine-language instruction.
.PP
The commands for examining source files are:
.PP
.PD 0
.TP 5
.BI "e " procedure\^
.TP 5
.BI "e " file-name\^
.TP 5
.BI "e " directory/\^
.TP 5
.BI "e " "directory file-name"\^
.PD
The first two forms set the current file to
the file containing
.I procedure\^
or to
.IR file-name .
The current line is set to the first line in the named
procedure or file.
Source files are assumed to be in
.IR directory .
The default is the current working directory.
The latter two forms change the value of
.IR directory .
If no procedure, file name, or directory is given,
the current procedure name and file name
are reported.
.TP 5
.BI / "regular expression" /
Search forward from the current line for a line containing
a string matching 
.I regular expression\^
as in
.IR ed (1).
The trailing
.B /
may be deleted.
.TP 5
.BI ? "regular expression" ?
Search backward from the current line for a line containing
a string matching
.I regular expression\^
as in
.IR ed (1).
The trailing
.B ?
may be deleted.
.TP 5
.B p
Print the current line.
.TP 5
.B z
Print the current line followed by the next 9 lines.
Set the current line to the last line printed.
.TP 5
.B w
Window.
Print the 10 lines around the current line.
.TP 5
.I number\^
Set the current line to the given line number.
Print the new current line.
.TP 5
.IB count +
Advance the current line by
.I count\^
lines.
Print the new current line.
.TP 5
.IB count \(mi
Retreat the current line by
.I count\^
lines.
Print the new current line.
.PP
The commands for controlling the execution of the source program are:
.PP
.TP 5
\fIcount\fB r \fIargs\fR
.br
.ns
.TP 5
\fIcount\fB R
Run the program with the given arguments.
The \fBr\fP command with no arguments reuses the previous arguments
to the program while the \fBR\fP command
runs the program with no arguments.
An argument beginning with
.B <
or
.B >
causes redirection for the
standard input or output, respectively.
If \fIcount\fP is given,
it specifies the number of breakpoints to be ignored.
.TP 5
\fIlinenumber\fB c\fI count\fR
.br
.ns
.TP 5
\fIlinenumber\fB C\fI count\fR
Continue after a breakpoint or interrupt.
If \fIcount\fP is given,
it specifies the breakpoint at which to stop after ignoring \f2count\fR - 1 breakpoints.
\fBC\fP continues with the signal which caused the program to stop
reactivated and
\fBc\fP ignores it.
If a line number is specified
then a temporary breakpoint is placed at the line
and execution is continued.
The breakpoint is deleted when the command finishes.
.TP 5
\fIlinenumber\fB g\fI count\fR
Continue after a breakpoint
with execution resumed at the given line.
If \fIcount\fP is given,
it specifies the number of breakpoints to be ignored.
.TP 5
\fBs \fIcount\fR
.br
.ns
.TP 5
\fBS \fIcount\fR
Single step
the program through \fIcount\fP lines.
If no count is given then the program is run for one line.
.B S
is equivalent to
.B s
except it steps through procedure calls.
.TP 5
\fBi\fR
.br
.ns
.TP 5
\fBI\fR
Single step by one machine-language instruction.
\fBI\fP steps with the signal
which caused the program to stop reactivated and
\fBi\fP ignores it.
.TP 5
\fIvariable$\fBm \fIcount\fR
.br
.ns
.TP 5
\fIaddress:\fBm \fIcount\fR
Single step
(as with \fBs\fP)
until the specified location
is modified with a new value.
If \fIcount\fP is omitted,
it is effectively infinity.
\fIVariable\fR
must be accessible from the current procedure.
Since this command is done by software,
it can be very slow.
.TP 5
\fIlevel\fB v \fR
Toggle verbose mode,
for use when single stepping with
\fBS\fP,
\fBs\fP or
\fBm\fP.
If \fIlevel\fP is omitted,
then just the current
source file and/or subroutine name
is printed when either changes.
If \fIlevel\fP is 1 or greater,
each C source line is printed
before it is executed;
if \fIlevel\fP is 2 or greater,
each assembler statement
is also printed.
A \fBv\fP turns verbose mode off if it is on for any level.
.TP 5
.B k
Kill the program being debugged.
.TP 5
procedure\fB(\fParg1,arg2,...\fB)\fP
.br
.ns
.TP 5
procedure\fB(\fParg1,arg2,...\fB)/\fP\fIm\fP
Execute the named procedure with the given arguments.
Arguments can be integer, character or string constants
or names of variables accessible from the current procedure.
The second form causes the value returned by the procedure to be
printed according to format \fIm\fP.
If no format is given, it defaults to
.BR d .
.TP 5
\fIlinenumber\fB b\fR \fIcommands\fR
Set a breakpoint at the given line.
If a procedure name without a line number is given (e.g., ``proc:''),
a breakpoint is placed at the first line in the procedure
even if it was not compiled with the
.B \-g
option.
If no \fIlinenumber\fP is given,
a breakpoint is placed at the current line.
If no
.I commands\^
are given, execution stops just before the breakpoint
and control is returned to
.IR sdb .
Otherwise
the 
.I commands\^
are executed when the breakpoint is
encountered and execution continues.
Multiple commands are specified by separating them with semicolons.
If \fBk\fP
is used as a command to execute at a breakpoint,
control returns to
.IR sdb ,
instead of continuing execution.
.TP 5
.B B
Print a list of the currently active breakpoints.
.TP 5
\fIlinenumber\fB d\fR
Delete a breakpoint at the given line.
If no \fIlinenumber\fP is given then the breakpoints are deleted interactively.
Each breakpoint location is printed and a line is read from the standard input.
If the line begins with a
.B y
or
.B d
then the breakpoint is deleted.
.TP 5
.B D
Delete all breakpoints.
.TP 5
.B l
Print the last executed line.
.TP 5
\fIlinenumber\fB a\fR
Announce.
If \fIlinenumber\fR is of the form
.IB proc : number\fR,
the command
effectively does a
.IB "linenumber " "b l\fR.
If \fIlinenumber\fR is of the form
.IB proc :\fR,
the command
effectively does a
.IB proc ": b T"\fR.
.PP
Miscellaneous commands:
.TP 5
.BI ! command\^
The command is interpreted by
.IR sh (1).
.TP 5
.B new-line
If the previous command printed a source line then
advance the current line by one line and
print the new current line.
If the previous command displayed a memory location, then
display the next memory location.
.TP 5
.B control-D
Scroll.
Print the next 10 lines
of instructions, source or data
depending on which was printed last.
.TP 5
.BI "< " filename
Read commands from
.I filename
until the end of file is reached, and then continue
to accept commands from standard input.
When
.I sdb
is told to display a variable by a command in such a file,
the variable name is displayed along with the value.
This command may not be nested;
.B <
may not appear as a command in a file.
.TP 5
.B M
Print the address maps.
.TP 5
.BR M\ [ ?/ ][ \(** "] \fIb \|e \|f\fP"
Record new values for the address map.
The arguments
\fB?\fP and \fB/\fP
specify the text and data maps, respectively.
The first segment,
.RI ( "b1, e1, f1" ),
is changed unless \fB\(**\fP is specified,
in which case the second segment
.RI ( "b1, e1, f1" ),
of the mapping is changed.
If fewer than three values are given,
the remaining map parameters are left unchanged.
.TP 5
\fB"\fI string\fR
Print the given string.
The
C
escape sequences of the form
.I "\\\\character"
are recognized,
where
.I character
is a nonnumeric character.
.TP 5
.B q
Exit the debugger.
.PP
The following commands also exist and are intended only for
debugging the debugger:
.PP
.PD 0
.TP 5
.B V
Print the version number.
.TP 5
.B Q
Print a list of procedures and files being debugged.
.TP 5
.B Y
Toggle debug output.
.PD
.SH FILES
a.out
.br
core
.SH SEE ALSO
cc(1), f77(1), sh(1). 
.br
a.out(4), core(4) in the
\f2\s-1UNIX\s+1 System V Programmer Reference Manual\fR.
.SH WARNINGS
C
variables are identified internally with an underscore prepended.
User variables which differ by only an initial underscore cannot
be distinguished, as
.I sdb
recognizes both internal and external names.
.PP
When \f2sdb\fR prints the
value of an external variable for
which there is no debugging information,
a warning is printed before the
value.
The value is assumed to be \f3int\fR (integer).
.PP
Data which are stored in text sections are indistinguishable
from functions.
.PP
Line number information in optimized functions is unreliable,
and some information may be missing.
.SH BUGS
If a procedure is called when the program is
.I not\^
stopped at a breakpoint
(such as when a core image is being debugged),
all variables are initialized before the procedure is started.
This makes it impossible to use a procedure which formats
data from a core image.
.PP
The default type for printing F77 parameters is incorrect.
Their address is printed instead of their value.
.PP
Tracebacks containing F77 subprograms with multiple entry points
may print too many arguments in the wrong order, but their values
are correct.
.PP
The range of an F77 array subscript is assumed to be
.I 1
to
.IR n ,
where
.I n
is the dimension corresponding to that subscript.
This is only significant when the user omits a subscript, or uses
.B \(**
to indicate the full range.
There is no problem in general with arrays having subscripts whose
lower bounds are not 1.
'\"	@(#)sdb.1	1.4
