.TH SEND 1C
.SH NAME
send, gath \- gather files and/or submit \s-1RJE\s+1 jobs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gath
.RB [ \-ih ]
file
.B .\|.\|.
.PP
.B send
argument
.B .\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.SS Gath
.I Gath\^
concatenates the named files and writes them to the standard output.
Tabs are expanded into spaces according to
the format specification for each file [see
.IR fspec (4)].
The size limit and margin parameters of a format specification
are also respected.
Non-graphic characters other than tabs are identified
by a diagnostic message and excised.
The output of
.I gath\^
contains no tabs unless the
.B \-h
flag is set, in which case the output is written with standard tabs
(every eighth column).
.PP
Any line of any of the files which begins with
.B ~
is interpreted by
.I gath\^
as a control line.
A line beginning
.RB `` "~# " ''
(tilde,space)
specifies a sequence of files to be included at that point.
A line beginning
.B ~!
specifies a
.SM UNIX
system command;
that command is executed,
and its output replaces the
.B ~!
line in the
.I gath\^
output.
.PP
Setting the
.B \-i
flag prevents control lines from being interpreted
and causes them to be output literally.
.PP
A file name of
.B \-
at any point refers to standard input,
and a control line consisting of
.B ~.
is a logical \s-1EOF\s+1.
Keywords may be defined by specifying a replacement string
which is to be substituted for each occurrence of the keyword.
Input may be collected directly from the terminal,
with several alternatives for prompting.
In fact, all of the special arguments and flags recognized by the
.I send\^
command are also recognized and treated identically by
.IR gath .
Several of them only make sense in the context
of submitting an \s-1RJE\s+1 job.
.SS Send
.PP
.I Send\^
is a command-level interface to the
.SM RJE
subsystems.
It allows the user
to collect input from various sources
in order to create a run stream
consisting of card images, and submit this run stream
for transmission to an
.SM IBM
host computer.
Output from the
.SM IBM
system may be returned to the user in either
.SM ASCII
text form or
.SM EBCDIC
punch format [see 
.I pnch
(4)].
How output is to be disposed of once it returns
from the host is determined by a "usr=" specification
which should be embedded in each job that a user
submits for transmission.
A detailed description of
.SM RJE
operation and the "usr=" specification is given in
.IR "U\s-1NIX\s+1 Remote Job Entry User Guide" .
.PP
Possible sources of input to
.I send\^
are: ordinary files, standard input,
the terminal,
and the output of a command or shell file.
Each source of input is treated as a virtual file,
and no distinction is made based upon its origin.
Typical input is an
.SM ASCII
text file of the sort
that is created by the editor
.IR ed (1).
An optional format specification
appearing in the first line of a file
[see
.IR fspec (4)]
determines the settings
according to which tabs are expanded into spaces.
In addition, lines that begin with
.B ~
are normally interpreted as commands
controlling the execution of
.IR send .
They may be used to set or reset flags,
to define keyword substitutions,
and to open new sources of input
in the midst of the current source.
Other text lines are translated one-for-one
into card images of the run stream.
.PP
The run stream that results from this collection
is treated as one job by the
.SM RJE
subsystems.
.I Send\^
prints the card count of the run stream,
and the queuer that is invoked
prints the name of the temporary file that holds the job
while it is awaiting transmission.
The initial card of a job
submitted to a
host
must have a
.B //
in the first column.
Any cards preceding this card will be excised.
If a host computer is not specified before
the first card of the runstream is ready to be sent,
.I send\^
will select a reasonable default.
All cards
beginning with
.B /*$
will be excised from the runstream,
because they are
.SM HASP
command cards.
.PP
The arguments that
.I send\^
accepts are described below.
An argument is interpreted
according to
the first pattern that it matches.
Preceding a character with
.B \e
causes it to loose any special meaning
it might otherwise have
when matching against an argument pattern.
.PP
.RS 2
.TP 21
.B \s+3\&.\s0
Close the current source.
.TP
.B \-
Open standard input as a new source.
.TP
.B +
Open the terminal as a new source.
.TP
.BI : spec :
Establish a default format
specification for included sources,
.br
e.g.,
.B :m6t\-12:
.TP
.BI : message\^
Print message on the terminal.
.TP
.BI \-: prompt\^
Open standard input
and, if it is a terminal,
print
.IR prompt .
.TP
.BI +: prompt\^
Open the terminal
and
print
.IR prompt .
.TP
.BI \- flags\^
Set the specified flags,
which are described below.
.TP
.BI + flags\^
Reset the specified flags.
.TP
.BI = flags\^
Restore the specified flags to their state
at the previous level.
.TP
.BI ! command\^
Execute the specified
.SM UNIX
system
.I command\^
via the one-line shell,
with input redirected to
.B /dev/null
as a default.
Open the standard output of the command
as a new source.
.TP
.BI $ line\^
Collect contiguous arguments
of this form and write them
as consecutive lines
to a temporary file;
then have the file executed by the shell.
Open the standard output of the shell
as a new source.
.TP
.BI @ directory\^
The current directory for the send process is changed to
.IR directory .
The original directory will be restored at the end of the current source.
.TP
.BI ~ comment\^
Ignore this argument.
.TP
.BI ?: keyword\^
Prompt for a definition of
.I keyword\^
from the terminal unless
.I keyword\^
has an existing definition.
.TP
.BI ? keyword =^ xx\^
Define the \fIkeyword\fP
as a two-digit hexadecimal
character code unless it already has a non-null replacement.
.TP
.BI ? keyword = string\^
Define the \fIkeyword\fP
in terms of a replacement
string unless it already has a non-null replacement.
.TP
.BI =: keyword\^
Prompt for a definition
of \fIkeyword\fP from the terminal.
.TP
.IB keyword =^ xx
Define \fIkeyword\fP
as a two-digit hexadecimal character code.
.TP
.IR keyword = string
Define \fIkeyword\fP
in terms of a replacement string.
.bp
.TP
.I host\^
The host machine that the job should be submitted to.
It can be any name that corresponds to one in the first column
of the \s-1RJE\s0 configuration file
.RB ( /usr/rje/lines ).
.TP
.I "file-name\^"
Open the specified file as a new source of input.
.i0
.PP
When commands are executed via 
.B $
or
.B !
the shell environment
[see \fIenviron\fP(5)]
will contain the values of all
send keywords that begin with
.B $
and have the
syntax of a shell variable.
.PP
The flags recognized by
.I send\^
are described in terms of
the special processing
that occurs when they are set:
.PP
.RS 2
.TP 5
.B \-l
List card images on standard output.
.SM EBCDIC
characters are translated back to
.SM ASCII\*S.
.TP
.B \-q
Do not output card images.
.TP
.B \-f
Do not fold lower case to upper.
.TP
.B \-t
Trace progress on diagnostic output,
by announcing the
opening of input sources.
.TP
.B \-k
Ignore the keywords
that are active at the previous level
and erase any keyword definitions
that have been made at the current level.
.TP
.B \-r
Process included sources in raw mode;
pack arbitrary 8-bit bytes
one per column (80 columns per card) until an
\s-1EOF\s+1.
.TP
.B \-i
Do not interpret control lines
in included sources;
treat them as text.
.TP
.B \-s
Make keyword substitutions
before detecting and interpreting
control lines.
.TP
.B \-y
Suppress error diagnostics
and submit job anyway.
.TP
.B \-g
Gather mode, qualifying
.B \-l
flag;
list text lines before
converting them to card images.
.TP
.B \-h
Write listing with standard tabs.
.TP
.B \-p
Prompt with \fB\(**\fP when taking input from the terminal.
.TP
.B \-m
When input returns to the terminal
from a lower level, repeat the prompt, if any.
.TP
.B \-a
Make
.B \-k
flag propagate to included sources,
thereby protecting them from keyword substitutions.
.TP
.B \-c
List control lines on diagnostic output.
.TP
.B \-d
Extend the current set of keyword
definitions by adding those active at the end of
included sources.
.TP
.B \-x
This flag guarantees that the job will be transmitted in the
order of submission (relative to other jobs sent with this flag).
.i0
.PP
Control lines are input lines
that begin with
.BR ~ .
In the default mode
.BR +ir ,
they are interpreted as commands to
.IR send .
Normally they are
detected immediately and
read literally.
The
.B \-s
flag forces
keyword substitutions to be made
before control lines
are intercepted and interpreted.
This can lead to unexpected results if a control line uses a
keyword which is defined within an immediately preceding
.B ~$
sequence.
Arguments appearing in control lines are handled
exactly like the command arguments to
.IR send ,
except that they are processed
at a nested level of input.
.PP
The two possible formats for a control line are:
``~argument'' and ``~##argument#\fB...\fP''.
In the first case,
where the
.B ~
is not followed by a space,
the remainder of the line
is taken as a single argument to
.IR send .
In the second case,
the line is parsed
to obtain a sequence of arguments
delimited by spaces.
In this case
the quotes
.B \(fm
and
\fB"\fP
may be employed to pass embedded spaces.
.PP
The interpretation of the argument
\fB\s+3\&.\s0\fP
is chosen so that an input line
consisting of \fB~.\fP
is treated as a logical \s-1EOF\s+1.
The following example illustrates
some of the above conventions:
.PP
.RS 10
send## \-
.br
~##argument ...
.br
~\fB.\fP
.RE
.i0
.PP
This sequence of three lines
is equivalent to
the command synopsis
at the beginning of this description.
In fact, the
.B \-
is not even required.
By convention, the
.I send\^
command reads standard input
if no other input source is specified.
.I Send\^
may therefore be employed
as a filter with side-effects.
.PP
The execution of the
.I send\^
command is controlled at each instant
by a current environment,
which includes
the format specification for the input source,
a default format specification for included sources,
the settings of the mode flags,
and the active set of keyword definitions.
This environment can be altered dynamically.
When a control line opens a new source of input,
the current environment is pushed onto a stack,
to be restored when input resumes
from the old source.
The initial format specification
for the new source
is taken from the first line of the file.
If none is provided, the established default is used
or, in its absence, standard tabs.
The initial mode settings
and active keywords
are copied from the old environment.
Changes made while processing
the new source
will not affect the environment
of the old source, with one exception:
if
.B \-d
mode is set in the old environment,
the old keyword context
will be augmented by those definitions
that are active at the end of the new source.
.PP
When
.I send\^
first begins execution,
all mode flags are reset,
and the values of the shell environment variables
become the initial values for keywords of the
same name with a
.B $
prefixed.
.PP
The initial reset state for all mode flags
is the
.B +
state.
In general, special processing
associated with a mode
.I N\^
is invoked by flag
.BI \- N\^
and is revoked by flag
.BI + N\^\fR.\fP
Most mode settings have an immediate effect
on the processing of the current source.
Exceptions to this are the
.B \-r
and
.B \-i
flags,
which apply only to included source,
causing it to be processed
in an uninterpreted manner.
.PP
A keyword is an arbitrary 8-bit
.SM ASCII
string for which
a replacement has been defined.
The replacement may be another string or
the hexadecimal code for a single 8-bit byte.
At any instant, a given set of keyword definitions is active.
Input text lines are scanned,
in one pass from left to right,
and longest matches are attempted
between substrings of the line
and the active set of keywords.
Characters that do not match
are output, subject to folding and
the standard translation.
Keywords
are replaced
by the specified hexadecimal code
or replacement string,
which is then output
character by character.
The expansion of tabs
and length checking,
according to the format specification
of an input source,
are delayed until
substitutions have been made in a line.
.PP
All of the keywords definitions made
in the current source
may be deleted by
setting the
.B \-k
flag.
It then becomes possible
to reuse them.
Setting the
.B \-k
flag also causes keyword definitions active
at the previous source level to be ignored.
Setting the
.B +k
flag causes keywords at the previous level to be ignored
but does not delete the definitions
made at the current level.
The
.B =k
argument reactivates the definitions of the previous level.
.PP
When keywords are redefined, the previous definition at the same
level of source input is lost, however the definition at the previous
level is only hidden, to be reactivated upon return to that level
unless a
.B \-d
flag causes the current definition to be retained.
.PP
Conditional prompts for keywords,
.BR ?:A ,/p
which have already been defined at some higher level
to be null or have a replacement
will simply cause the definitions
to be copied down to the current level;
new definitions
will not be solicited.
.PP
Keyword substitution is
an elementary macro facility
that is easily explained
and that appears useful enough
to warrant its inclusion in the
.I send\^
command.
More complex replacements are
the function of a general macro processor (\c
.I m4\^\c
(1), perhaps).
To reduce the overhead of string comparison,
it is recommended that
keywords be chosen
so that their initial characters
are unusual.
For example, let them all be upper case.
.PP
.I Send\^
performs two types of error checking on input text lines.
Primarily, only
.SM ASCII
graphics
and tabs
are permitted in input text.
Secondly, the length of a text line,
after substitutions have been made,
may not exceed 80 bytes.
The length of each line may be additionally constrained
by a size parameter
in the format specification
for an input source.
Diagnostic output provides
the location of each erroneous line,
by line number and input source,
a description of the error,
and the card image that results.
Other routine errors that are announced are
the inability to open or write files,
and abnormal exits from the shell.
Normally, the occurrence of any error
causes
.IR send ,
before invoking the queuer,
to prompt for positive affirmation
that the suspect run stream
should be submitted.
.PP
Before submitting a job to a host, 
.I send\^
translates 8-bit
.SM ASCII
characters into
their
.SM EBCDIC
equivalents.
The conversion for 8-bit
.SM ASCII
characters
in the octal range 040-176 is based on
the character set described in
``Appendix H'' of
.I "IBM System/370 Principles of Operation\^"
(\s-1IBM SRL\s+1 GA22-7000).
Each 8-bit
.SM ASCII
character
in the range 040-377
possesses an
.SM EBCDIC
equivalent
into which it is mapped,
with five exceptions:#
.if t \fB~\fP into \fB\(no\fP,
.if n \fB~\fP into EBCDIC not,
0345 into
.BR ~ ,
.if t 0325 into \fB\(ct\fP,
.if n 0325 into \s-1EBCDIC\s0 cent,
.if t 0313 into \(bv\|,
.if n 0313 into \s-1EBCDIC\s0 split-bar,
0177 (\s-1DEL\s0) is illegal.
In listings requested from
.I send\^
and in printed output returned by
the subsystem,
the reverse translation
is made
with the qualification that
.SM EBCDIC
characters that do not have valid 8-bit 
.SM ASCII
equivalents
are translated into
.BR ^ .
.PP
Additional control over the translation process
is afforded by
the
.B \-f
flag
and hexadecimal character codes.
As a default,
.I send\^
folds
lower-case letters into upper case.
Setting the
.B \-f
flag
inhibits any folding.
Non-standard character codes are obtained as
a special case of keyword substitution.
The users should check with the remote
IBM system to be sure the special
processing will be accepted.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
m4(1),
rjestat(1C),
sh(1).
.br
lseek(2),
fspec(4),
pnch(4),
ascii(5),
environ(5) in the
\f2\s-1UNIX\s+1 System V Programmer Reference Manual\fR.
.br
.sp
.I "U\s-1NIX\s+1 Remote Job Entry User Guide\^"
in the 
\f2U\s-1NIX\s+1 System User Guide\fR.
.SH BUGS
Standard input is read in blocks, and unused bytes are
returned via
.IR lseek (2).
If standard input is a pipe, multiple arguments
of the form
.B \-
and
.BI \-: prompt
should not be used,
nor should the logical \s-1EOF\s+1 (\fB~.\fP).
.tr ##
.\"	@(#)send.1c	6.3 of 9/2/83
