.TH SHL 1
.SH NAME
shl \- shell layer manager
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B shl
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Shl\^
allows a user to interact with more than one shell from a single terminal.
The user controls these shells, 
known as 
.IR layers\^ ,
using the commands 
described below.
.P
The
.I current layer
is the layer which can receive input from the keyboard.
Other layers attempting to read from the keyboard are blocked.
Output from multiple layers is multiplexed onto the terminal.
To have the output of a layer blocked when it is not current, the 
.I stty\^ 
option
.B loblk
may be set within the layer.
.P
The
.I stty\^ 
character
.B swtch\^
(set to ^Z if \s-1NUL\s+1)
is used to switch control to
.I shl\^
from a layer.
.I Shl\^
has its own prompt, \f3>\h@-.3m@>\h@-.3m@>\fP, to
help distinguish it from a layer.
.P
A
.I layer\^ 
is a shell
which has been bound to a virtual tty device 
.RB ( /dev/sxt??? ).
The virtual device can be manipulated like a real tty device using
.IR stty\^ (1)
and 
.IR ioctl\^ (2).
Each layer has its own process group id.
.SS Definitions
A
.I name\^
is a sequence of characters delimited by a blank, tab or new-line.
Only the first eight characters are significant.
The \fInames\fP 
.B (1) 
through
.BR (7) 
cannot be used when creating a layer.
They are used by
.I shl\^ 
when no name is supplied.
They may be abbreviated to just the digit.
.SS Commands
The following commands may be issued from the 
.I shl\^
prompt level.
Any unique prefix is accepted.
.PP
.PD 0
.TP
\f3create\fP \*(OK \f2name\^\fP \*(CK
Create a layer called 
.I name\^ 
and make it the current layer.
If no argument is given, a layer will be created with a name of the form
\fI(#)\fP where \fI#\fP is the last digit of the virtual device 
bound to the layer.
The shell prompt variable 
.B \s-1PS1\s+1
is set to the name of the layer followed by a space.
A maximum of seven layers can be created.
.TP
\f3block\f2 name\fR [ \f2name\fR ... ]
For each \f2name\fR, block the output of the corresponding
layer when it is not the current layer.
This is equivalent to setting the \f2stty\fR option \f3loblk\fR
within the layer.
.TP
\f3delete\fP \f2name\^\fP \*(OK \f2name\^\fP .\|.\|. \*(CK
For each \fIname\fP, delete the corresponding layer.
All processes in the process group of the layer are sent the SIGHUP signal
(see 
.IR signal (2)).
.TP
.BR help " (or " ? )
Print the syntax of the
.I shl\^
commands.
.TP
\f3layers\fP \*(OK \f3\-l\fP \*(CK \*(OK \f2name\^\fP .\|.\|. \*(CK
For each \fIname\fP, list the layer name and its process group.
The
.B \-l 
option produces a 
.IR ps (1)-like
listing.
If no arguments are given, information is presented for all existing
layers.
.TP
\f3resume\fP \*(OK \f2name\^\fP \*(CK
Make the layer referenced by 
.I name\^
the current layer.
If no argument is given, the last existing current layer 
will be resumed.
.TP
\f3toggle\fR
Resume the layer that was current before the last current layer.
.bp
.TP
\f3unblock\f2 name\fR  [ \f2name\fR ... ]
For each \f2name\fR, do not block the output of the
corresponding layer when it is not the current layer.
This is equivalent to setting the \f2stty\fR option \f3loblk\fR
within the layer.
.TP
.B quit
Exit 
.IR shl\^ .
All layers are sent the SIGHUP signal.
.TP
\f2name\^\fP
Make the layer referenced by 
.I name\^
the current layer.
.PD
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 18
/dev/sxt???
Virtual tty devices
.TP
\s-1$SHELL\s+1
Variable containing path name of the shell to use (default is 
/bin/sh).
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
sh(1),
stty(1).
.br
ioctl(2),
signal(2) in the
\f2\s-1UNIX\s+1 System V Programmer Reference Manual\fR.
.br
sxt(7) in the
\f2\s-1UNIX\s+1 System V Administrator Reference Manual\fR.
