.TH SORT 1
.SH NAME
sort \- sort and/or merge files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sort
.RB [ \-cmu ]
.RB [ \-o output]
.RB [ \-y kmem]
.RB [ \-z recsz]
.RB [ \-dfiMnr ]
.RB [ \-bt x]
.RB [ + pos1
.RB [ \- pos2]]
[files]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Sort
sorts
lines of all the named files together
and writes the result on
the standard output.
The standard input is read if
.B \-
is used as a file name
or no input files are named.
.PP
Comparisons are based on one or more sort keys extracted
from each line of input.
By default, there is one sort key, the entire input line,
and ordering is lexicographic by bytes in machine
collating sequence.
.PP
The following options alter the default behavior:
.TP 5
.B \-c
Check that the input file is sorted according to the ordering rules;
give no output unless the file is out of sort.
.TP
.B \-m
Merge only, the input files are already sorted.
.TP
.B \-u
Unique: suppress all but one in each
set of lines having equal keys.
.TP
.BI \-o output
The argument given is the name of an output file
to use instead of the standard output.
This file may be the same as one of the inputs.
There may be optional blanks between
.B \-o
and
.IR output.
.TP
.BI \-y kmem
The amount of main memory used by the sort
has a large impact on its performance.
Sorting a small file in a large amount
of memory is a waste.
If this option is omitted,
.I sort
begins using a system default memory size,
and continues to use more space as needed.
If this option is presented with a value,
.IR kmem ,
.I sort
will start using that number of kilobytes of memory,
unless the administrative minimum or maximum is violated,
in which case the corresponding extremum will be used.
Thus,
.BR \-y 0
is guaranteed to start with minimum memory.
By convention,
.B \-y
(with no argument) starts with maximum memory.
.TP
.BI \-z recsz
The size of the longest line read is recorded
in the sort phase so buffers can be allocated
during the merge phase.
If the sort phase is omitted via the
.B \-c
or
.B \-m
options, a popular system default size will be used.
Lines longer than the buffer size will cause
.I sort
to terminate abnormally.
Supplying the actual number of bytes in the longest line
to be merged (or some larger value)
will prevent abnormal termination.
.PP
The following options override the default ordering rules.
.TP 5
.B \-d
``Dictionary'' order: only letters, digits and blanks (spaces and tabs)
are significant in comparisons.
.TP
.B \-f
Fold lower case
letters into upper case.
.TP
.B \-i
Ignore characters outside the
.SM ASCII
range 040-0176
in non-numeric comparisons.
.TP
.B \-M
Compare as months.
The first three non-blank characters
of the field are folded to upper case
and compared so that ``\s-1JAN\s+1'' < ``\s-1FEB\s+1'' < .\|.\|. < ``\s-1DEC\s+1''.
Invalid fields compare low to ``\s-1JAN\s+1''.
The
.B \-M
option implies the
.BR \-b
option (see below).
.TP
.B \-n
An initial numeric string,
consisting of optional blanks, optional minus sign,
and zero or more digits with optional decimal point,
is sorted by arithmetic value.
The
.B \-n
option implies the
.B \-b
option (see below).
Note that the
.B \-b
option is only effective when restricted sort key
specifications are in effect.
.TP
.B \-r
Reverse the sense of comparisons.
.PP
When ordering options appear before restricted
sort key specifications, the requested ordering rules are
applied globally to all sort keys.
When attached to a specific sort key (described below),
the specified ordering options override all global ordering options
for that key.
.PP
The notation
.BI + pos1
.BI \- pos2
restricts a sort key to one beginning at
.I pos1
and ending at
.IR pos2 .
The characters at positions
.I pos1
and
.I pos2
are included in the sort key (provided that
.I pos2
does not precede
.IR pos1 ).
A missing
.BI \- pos2
means the end of the line.
.PP
Specifying
.I pos1
and
.I pos2
involves the notion of a field,
a minimal sequence of characters followed
by a field separator or a new-line.
By default, the first blank (space or tab) of a sequence of
blanks acts as the field separator.
All blanks in a sequence of blanks are considered to be
part of the next field; for example,
all blanks at the beginning of a line are considered to be part of
the first field.
The treatment of field separators can be altered using the options:
.TP 5
.BI \-t x
Use
.I x
as the field separator character;
.I x
is not considered to be part of a field
(although it may be included in a sort key).
Each occurrence of
.I x
is significant
(e.g.,
.I xx
delimits an empty field).
.TP
.B \-b
Ignore leading blanks when determining the starting and ending
positions of a restricted sort key.
If the
.B \-b
option is specified before the first
.BI + pos1
argument, it will be applied to all
.BI + pos1
arguments.
Otherwise, the
.B b
flag may be attached independently to each
.BI + pos1
or
.BI \- pos2
argument (see below).
.PP
.I Pos1
and
.I pos2
each have the form
.IB m . n
optionally followed by one or more of the flags
.BR bdfinr .
A starting position specified by
.BI + m . n
is interpreted to mean the
.IR n +1st
character in the
.IR m  +1st
field.
A missing
.BI . n
means
.BR . 0,
indicating the first character of the
.IR m +1st
field.
If the
.B b
flag is in effect
.I n
is counted from the first non-blank in the
.IR m +1st
field;
.BI + m . \fR0 b
refers to the first non-blank character in the
.IR m +1st
field.
.PP
A last position specified by
.BI \- m . n
is interpreted to mean the
.IR n th
character (including separators) after the last character of the
.I m th
field.
A missing
.BI . n
means
.BR . 0,
indicating the last character of the
.IR m th
field.
If the
.B b
flag is in effect
.I n
is counted from the last leading blank in the
.IR m +1st
field;
.BI \- m . \fR1 b
refers to the first non-blank in the
.IR m +1st
field.
.PP
When there are multiple sort keys, later keys
are compared only after all earlier keys
compare equal.
Lines that otherwise compare equal are ordered
with all bytes significant.
.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
Sort the contents of
.I infile
with the second field as the sort key:
.IP
sort +1 \-2 infile
.PP
Sort, in reverse order, the contents of
.I infile1
and
.IR infile2 ,
placing the output in
.I outfile
and using the first character of the second field 
as the sort key:
.IP
sort \-r \-o outfile +1.0 \-1.2 infile1 infile2
.PP
Sort, in reverse order, the contents of
.I infile1
and
.I infile2
using the first non-blank character of the second field 
as the sort key:
.IP
sort \-r +1.0b \-1.1b infile1 infile2
.PP
Print the password file
.RI [ passwd (4)]
sorted by the numeric user
.SM ID
(the third colon-separated field):
.IP
sort \-t: +2n \-3 /etc/passwd
.PP
Print the lines of the already sorted file
.IR infile ,
suppressing all but the first occurrence of lines
having the same third field
(the options
.B \-um
with just one input file make the choice of a unique
representative from a set of equal lines predictable):
.IP
sort \-um +2 \-3 infile
.SH FILES
/usr/tmp/stm???
.SH SEE ALSO
comm(1),
join(1),
uniq(1).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Comments and exits with non-zero status for various trouble
conditions
(e.g., when input lines are too long),
and for disorder discovered under the
.B \-c
option.
.SP
When the last line of an input file is missing a
.B new-line
character,
.I sort
appends one, prints a warning message, and continues.
.\"	@(#)sort.1	6.3 of 9/2/83
