.TH SU 1
.SH NAME
su \- become super-user or another user
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B su
[
.B \-
] [ name [ arg .\|.\|. ] ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Su\^
allows one to become another user without logging off.
The default user
.I name\^
is
.B root
(i.e., super-user).
.PP
To use
.IR su ,
the appropriate password must be supplied
(unless one is already \fBroot\fP).
If the password is correct,
.I su\^
will execute a new shell with the real and effective user \s-1ID\s0 set to
that of the specified user.
The new shell will be the optional program
named in the shell field of the specified user's password
file entry (see
.IR passwd (4)),
or
.B /bin/sh
if none is specified (see
.IR sh (1)).
To restore normal user \s-1ID\s0 privileges,
type an
.SM
.B EOF
.RI ( cntrl-d )
to the new shell.
.PP
Any additional arguments given on the command line are
passed to the program invoked as the shell.
When using programs like
.IR sh (1),
an
.I arg\^
of the form
.B \-c
.I string\^
executes
.I string\^
via the shell and an arg of
.B \-r
will give the user a restricted shell.
.PP
The following statements are true only if the optional program named
in the shell field of the specified user's password file entry is
like \fIsh\fP(1).
If the first argument to
.I su
is a
.BR \- ,
the environment will be changed
to what would be expected if the user
actually logged in as the specified user.
This is done by invoking the program used as the shell with an
.I arg0\^
value whose first character is
.BR \- ,
thus causing first the system's profile (\fB/etc/profile\fP)
and then the specified user's profile
(\fB.profile\fP in the new HOME directory)
to be executed.
Otherwise, the environment is passed along with the possible exception of
.SM
.BR $PATH \*S,
which is set to
.B /bin:/etc:/usr/bin
for
.BR root .
Note that if the optional program used as the shell is
.BR /bin/sh ,
the user's \fB.profile\fP can check
.I arg0\^
for
.B \-sh
or
.B \-su
to determine if it was invoked by \fIlogin\fP(1) or \fIsu\fP(1),
respectively.
If the user's program is other than \fB/bin/sh\fP, then \fB.profile\fP
is invoked with an
.I arg0\^
of
.BI - program
by both \fIlogin\fP(1) and \fIsu\fP(1).
.PP
All attempts to become
another user
using \fIsu\fP are logged in the log file
.BR /usr/adm/sulog .
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To become user \fBbin\fP while retaining your previously
exported environment, execute:
.sp
.RS
su bin
.RE
.sp
To become user \fBbin\fP but change the environment
to what would be expected if \fBbin\fP had originally logged in,
execute:
.sp
.RS
su - bin
.RE
.sp
To execute \fIcommand\fP with the temporary environment and permissions of
user \fBbin\fP, type:
.sp
.RS
su - bin -c "\fIcommand\fP \fIargs\fP"
.RE
.bp
.SH FILES
/etc/passwd		system's password file
.br
/etc/profile		system's profile
.br
.SM
.RB $HOME\*S/ . "profile		user's profile"
.br
/usr/adm/sulog		log file
.SH SEE ALSO
env(1),
login(1),
sh(1).
.br
passwd(4),
profile(4),
environ(5) in the
\f2\s-1UNIX\s+1 System V Programmer Reference Manual\fR.
.\"	@(#)su.1	6.3 of 9/2/83
