.TH TOC 1G
.SH NAME
toc \- graphical table of contents routines
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBdtoc\fR [directory]
.br
\fBttoc\fR mm-file
.br
\fBvtoc\fR [\fB\-c\^d\^h\fRn\fB\^i\^m\^s\^v\fRn] [\s-1TTOC\s+1 file]
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
All of the commands listed below reside in
.B /usr/bin/graf
[see
.IR graphics (1G)].
.TP 10
\fBdtoc\fR
Dtoc makes a textual table of contents, \s-1TTOC\s+1,
of all subdirectories
beginning at
.I directory\^
(\fIdirectory\fR defaults to \fB.\fR).
The list has one entry per directory.
The entry fields from left to right are
level number, directory name, and the number of
ordinary readable files in the directory.
.I Dtoc\^
is useful in making a visual display of all or parts of a
file system.
The following will make a visual display
of all the readable directories under
\fB/\fR:
.br
	\fBdtoc / \||\| vtoc \||\| td\fR
.TP 10
\fBttoc\fR 
Output is the table of contents generated 
by the
.SM .TC
macro
of \fImm\fR(1) translated to \s-1TTOC\s+1 format.  
The input is assumed to be an \fImm\fR file that
uses the .H family of macros for section headers.  If no \fIfile\fR is
given, the standard input is assumed.
.TP 10
\fBvtoc\fR
\fIVtoc\fR produces a \s-1GPS\s+1 describing a hierarchy chart from a \s-1TTOC\s+1.
The output drawing consists of boxes containing
text connected in a tree structure.
If no \fIfile\fR is given, the standard input
is assumed.
Each \s-1TTOC\s+1 entry describes one box and has the form:
.br
	\fIid\fR [\fIline-weight\fR,\fIline-style\fR] "\fItext\|\fR" [\fImark\fR]
.br
where:
.RS 10
.TP 12
\fIid\fR
is an alternating sequence of numbers 
and dots.
The \fIid\fR specifies the position of the entry in the
hierarchy.  The \fIid\fR\| \fB0.\fR is the root of the tree.
.TP 12
\fIline-weight\fR
is either:
.br
		\fBn\fR, normal-weight; or
.br
		\fBm\fR, medium-weight; or
.br
		\fBb\fR, bold-weight.
.TP 12
\fIline-style\fR
is either:
.br
		\fBso\fR, solid-line;  
.br
		\fBdo\fR, dotted-line;  
.br
		\fBdd\fR, dot-dash line; 
.br
		\fBda\fR, dashed-line; or 
.br
		\fBld\fR, long-dashed
.br
.TP 12
\fItext\fR
is a character string surrounded 
by quotes.
The characters between the quotes become the contents of the box.
To include a quote within a box it must be escaped (\fB\\"\fR).
.TP 12
\fImark\fR
is a character string (surrounded 
by quotes if it contains spaces), with 
included dots being escaped.
The string is put above the top right corner 
of the box.  To include either a quote or a dot within a
\fImark\fR it must be escaped.
.sp
.RE
.RS 10
Entry example:  1.1 b,da "\s-1ABC\s+1" \s-1DEF\s+1
.br
Entries may span more than one line by escaping the new-line\fR (\fB\\new-line\fR).
.sp
Comments are surrounded by the \fB/\(**\fR,\fB\(**/\fR pair.  They may appear
anywhere in a \s-1TTOC\s+1.
.sp
Options:
.TP 5
\fBc\fR
Use text as entered (default is all 
upper case).
.TP 5
\fBd\fR
Connect the boxes with diagonal lines.
.TP 5
\fBh\fIn\fR
Horizontal interbox space is \fIn\fR\^% of box 
width.
.TP 5
\fBi\fR
Suppress the box \fIid\fR.
.TP 5
\fBm\fR
Suppress the box \fImark\fR.
.TP 5
\fBs\fR
Do not compact boxes horizontally.
.TP 5
\fBv\fIn\fR
Vertical interbox space is \fIn\fR\^% of box height.
.sp
.RE
.sp
.SH "SEE ALSO"
graphics(1G). 
.br
gps(4) in the
\f2\s-1UNIX\s+1 System V Programmer Reference Manual\fR.
.\"	@(#)toc.1g	6.2 of 9/2/83
