.TH TPUT 1
.SH NAME
tput \- query terminfo database
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.BR "tput [ -T" type " ] " capname
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.I Tput
uses the
.I terminfo(4)
database to make terminal-dependent capabilities and information available to
the shell.
.I Tput
outputs a string if the attribute
.RB ( cap ability " name" )
is of type string, or an integer if the attribute is of type integer.
If the attribute is of type Boolean, tput simply sets the exit code
(0 for TRUE, 1 for FALSE), and does no output.
.PP
.PD 1u
.TP 11
.BI -T type
indicates the type of terminal.
Normally this flag is unnecessary, as the default is taken from the
environment variable
.B $TERM.
.PP
.TP 11
.I Capname
indicates the attribute from the
.I terminfo
database.
See
.I terminfo(4).
.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP 18
.B "tput clear"
Echo clear-screen sequence for the current terminal.
.TP 18
.B "tput cols"
Print the number of columns for the current terminal.
.TP 18
.B "tput -T450 cols"
Print the number of columns for the 450 terminal.
.TP 18
.B "bold=`tput smso`"
Set shell variable "bold" to stand-out mode sequence for current terminal.
This might be followed by a prompt:
.sp 0
\fBecho "${bold}Please type in your name: \\c"\fR
.TP 18
.B "tput hc"
Set exit code to indicate if current terminal is a hardcopy terminal.
.PP
.SH FILES
.TP 25
/etc/term/?/*
Terminal descriptor files
.TP 25
/usr/include/term.h
Definition files
.TP 25
/usr/include/curses.h

.SP
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.I Tput
prints error messages and returns the following error codes on error:
.in +6
.PD 1u
.TP 15
.B -1
Usage error.
.TP 15
.B -2
Bad terminal type.
.TP 15
.B -3
Bad capname.
.in

.PP
In addition, if a capname is requested for a terminal that has no value for
that capname (e.g.,
.BR "tput -T450 lines" ), " -1"
is printed.
.PP

.SH "SEE ALSO"
stty(1).
.br
terminfo(4) in the
\f2\s-1UNIX\s+1 System V Programmer Reference Manual\fR.
