.TH UUCP 1C
.SH NAME
uucp, uulog, uuname \- \s-1UNIX\s+1 system to \s-1UNIX\s+1 system copy
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B uucp
[ options ]
source-files destination-file
.PP
.B uulog
[ options ]
.PP
.B uuname
[
.B \-l
]
[
.B \-v
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.SS Uucp.
.I Uucp\^
copies files named by the
.I source-file\^
arguments to the
.I destination-file\^
argument.
A file name may be a path name on your machine, or may
have the form:
.PP
.RS .5i
system-name!path-name
.RE
.PP
where
.I system-name\^
is taken from a list of system names which
.I uucp\^
knows about.
The
.I system-name\^
may also be a list of names such as
.PP
.RS .5i
system-name!system-name!...!system-name!path-name
.RE
.PP
in which case an attempt is made to send the file via the specified route,
and only to a destination in \s-1PUBDIR\s+1 (see below).
Care should be taken to insure that intermediate nodes in the
route are willing to foward information.
.PP
The shell metacharacters
.BR ? ,
.B \(**
and
.B [\|.\|.\|.\|]
appearing in
.I path-name\^
will be expanded on the appropriate system.
.PP
Path names may be one of:
.PP
.RS
.TP
(1)
a full path name;
.TP
(2)
a path name preceded by
.BI ~ user\^
where
.I user\^
is a login name on the specified system
and is replaced by that user's login directory;
.TP
(3)
a path name preceded by
.BI ~/ user\^
where
.I user\^
is a login name on the specified system
and is replaced by that user's directory under \s-1PUBDIR\s+1;
.TP
(4)
anything else is prefixed by the current directory.
.RE
.PP
If the result is an erroneous path name for the remote system
the copy will fail.
If the
.I destination-file\^
is a directory, the last part of the
.I source-file\^
name is used.
.ig
If a simple
.I ~user\^
destination is inaccessible to 
.IR uucp ,
data is copied to a spool directory and the user
is notified by
.IR mail (1).
..
.PP
.I Uucp\^
preserves execute permissions across the transmission
and gives 0666 read and write permissions [see
.IR chmod (2)].
.PP
The following options are interpreted by
.IR uucp :
.TP .5i
.B \-d
Make all necessary directories for the file copy (default).
.TP 
.B \-f
Do not make intermediate directories for the file copy.
.TP
.B \-c
Use the source file when copying out rather than
copying the file to the spool directory (default).
.TP
.B \-C
Copy the source file to the spool directory.
.TP
.BI \-m file\^
Report status of the transfer in
.I file.\^
If
.I file
is omitted, send mail to the requester when the copy is
completed.
.TP
.BI \-n user\^
Notify
.I user\^
on the remote system that a file was sent.
.TP
.BI \-e sys\^
Send the
.I uucp\^
command to system
.I sys\^
to be executed there.
(Note: this will only be successful if the remote
machine allows the
.I uucp\^
command to be executed by
.BR /usr/lib/uucp/uuxqt .)
.TP
.B \-r
Queue job but do not start the file transfer process.
By default a file transfer process is started each time 
uucp is evoked.
.TP
.B \-j
Control writing of the 
.I uucp\^
job number to standard output (see below).
.PP
.I Uucp\^
associates a job number with each request.
This job number can be used by
.I uustat\^
to obtain status or terminate the job.
.PP
The environment variable \fBJOBNO\fP and the \fB-j\fP option
are used to control the listing of the \fIuucp\fP job number
on standard output.
If the environment variable \fBJOBNO\fP is undefined or set to 
\fBOFF\fP, the job number will not be listed (default).
If \fIuucp\fP is then invoked with the \fB-j\fP option, the job number
will be listed.
If the environment variable \fBJOBNO\fP is set to \fBON\fP and
is exported, a job number will be written to standard output 
each time uucp is invoked.  
In this case, the \fB-j\fP option will supress output of the job
number.  
.SS Uulog
.PP
.I Uulog\^
queries a summary log
of 
.I uucp\^
and
.IR uux (1C)
transactions in the file
.B /usr/spool/uucp/\s-1LOGFILE.\s0
.ne 3
.PP
The options cause 
.I uulog
to print logging information:
.TP .5i
.BI \-s sys\^
Print information about work involving system
.IR sys .
If 
.IR sys
is not specified, then logging information for all systems
will be printed.
.TP
.BI \-u user\^
Print information about work done for the specified,
.IR user .
If 
.IR user
is not specified then logging information for all users
will be printed.
.SS Uuname.
.PP
.I Uuname\^
lists the uucp names of known systems.
The
.B \-l
option returns the local system name.
The 
.B \-v 
option will print additional information about each system.
A description will be printed for each system that has a line of
information in \fB/usr/lib/uucp/\s-1ADMIN\s+1\fR.
The format of \s-1ADMIN\s+1 is:
.SP
.I sysname\^ 
tab
.I description\^
tab.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP \w'/usr/spool/uucppublic\ \ 'u
/usr/spool/uucp
spool directory
.TP
/usr/spool/uucppublic
public directory for receiving and sending (\s-1PUBDIR\s0)
.TP
/usr/lib/uucp/\(**
other data and program files
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
mail(1), uux(1C).
.br
chmod(2) in the
\f2\s-1UNIX\s+1 System V Programmer Reference Manual\fR.
.SH WARNING
The domain of remotely accessible files can
(and for obvious security reasons, usually should)
be severely restricted.
You will very likely not be able to fetch files
by path name;
ask a responsible person on the remote system to
send them to you.
For the same reasons, you will probably not be able
to send files to arbitrary path names.
As distributed, the remotely accessible files are
those whose names begin
.B /usr/spool/uucppublic
(equivalent to
.B ~nuucp
or just
.BR ~ ).
.SH NOTES
In order to send files that begin with a dot (e.g., .profile) the files must 
by qualified with a dot. For example: .profile, .prof*, .profil?
are correct; whereas *prof*, ?profile are incorrect.
.PP
.I Uucp\^
will not generate a job number for a strictly local transaction.
.bp
.SH BUGS
All files received by
.I uucp\^
will be owned by
.IR uucp .
.br
The \fB\-m\fP option will only work sending files or receiving
a single file.
Receiving multiple files specified by special shell
characters \fB? \(** \|[\|.\|.\|.\|]\fP will not activate
the \fB\-m\fP option.
.br
The \fB\-m\fP option will not work if all transactions are local
or if 
.B uucp
is executed remotely via the \fB\-e\fP option.
.br
The \fB\-n\fP option will function only when the source and destination
are not on the same machine.
.br
Only the first six characters of a 
.I system-name
are significant.
Any excess characters are ignored.
.\"	@(#)uucp.1c	6.1 of 5/4/83
