.TH UUX 1C
.SH NAME
uux \- \s-1UNIX\s+1-to-\s-1UNIX\s+1 system command execution
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B uux
[
options
]
command-string
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Uux\^
will gather zero or more files from various systems,
execute a command on a specified system
and then send standard output to a file on a specified
system.
Note that, for security reasons, many installations will
limit the list of
commands executable on behalf of an incoming request from
.IR uux .
Many sites will permit little more than
the receipt of mail [see
.IR mail (1)]
via 
.IR uux .
.PP
The \fIcommand-string\fP is made up of one or more arguments that look
like a Shell command line,
except that the command and file names
may be prefixed by
.IB system-name !\fR.\fP
A null \fIsystem-name\fP is interpreted as the local system.
.PP
File names may be one of
.IP
(1) a full path name;
.IP
(2) a path name preceded by
.BI ~ xxx\^
where
.I xxx\^
is a login name on the specified system
and is replaced by that user's login directory;
.br
.IP
(3) anything else is prefixed by the current directory.
.PP
As an example, the command
.IP
uux "\^!diff usg!/usr/dan/f1 pwba!/a4/dan/f1 > !f1.diff\^"
.PP
will get the \fBf1\fP files from the ``usg'' and ``pwba'' machines,
execute a
.I diff\^
command
and put the results in \fBf1.diff\fP in the local directory.
.PP
Any special shell characters such as \fB<>;\(bv\fP should be quoted either
by quoting the entire \fIcommand-string\fP, or quoting the special
characters as individual arguments.
.PP
.I Uux\^
will attempt to get all files to the execution system.
For files which are output files, the file name must be escaped using
parentheses.
For example, the command
.IP
uux a!uucp b!/usr/file \\(c!/usr/file\\)
.PP
will send a \fIuucp\fP command to system ``a'' to get
\fB/usr/file\fP from system ``b'' and send it to system ``c''.
.PP
.I Uux\^
will notify you if the requested command on the remote
system was disallowed.
The response comes by remote mail from the remote machine.
Executable commands are listed in 
.B /usr/lib/uucp/L.cmds
on the remote system.  The format of the \fBL.cmds\fP file is:
.IP
cmd,machine1,machine2,...
.PP
If no machines are specified, then any machine can execute \fBcmd\fP.
If machines are specified, only the listed machines can execute
\fBcmd\fP.  If the desired command is not listed in \fBL.sys\fP then no 
machine can execute that command.
.PP
Redirection of standard input and output is usually
restricted to files in \s-1PUBDIR\s+1.
Directories into which redirection is allowed must be specified in
\f3/usr/lib/uucp/\s-1USERFILE\s+1\fR by the
system administrator.
See the \f2\s-1UUCP\s+1 Administrator Manual\fR in the
\f2\s-1UNIX\s+1 System V Administrator Guide\fR.
.PP
The following \fIoptions\fP are interpreted by
.IR uux :
.TP .5i
.B \-
The standard input to
.I uux
is made the standard input to the
.IR command-string .
.TP .5i
.B \-n
Send no notification to user.
.TP 
.BI \-m file\^
Report status of the transfer in
.I file.\^
If
.I file
is omitted, send mail to the requester when the copy is
completed.
.TP
.B \-j
Control writing of the \f2uucp\fR job number to standard output.
.PP
.I Uux\^
associates a job number with each request.
This job number can be used by \f2uustat\fR to obtain status or
terminate the job.
.PP
The environment variable \s-1\f3JOBNO\s+1\fR and the \f3\-j\fR
option are used to control the listing of the \f2uux\fR job
number on standard output.
If the environment variable \f3\s-1JOBNO\s+1\fR is undefined of set
to \f3\s-1OFF\s+1\fR, the job number will not be listed (default).
If \f2uuco\fR is then invoked with the \f3\-j\fR option,
the job number will be listed.
If the environment variable \f3\s-1JOBNO\s+1\fR is set to \f3\s-1ON\s+1\fR
and is exported, a job number will be written to standard
output each time \f2uux\fR is invoked.
In this case,
the \f3\-j\fR option will suppress output of the job number.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 27
/usr/spool/uucp
spool directory
.TP
/usr/spool/uucppublic
public directory (\s-1PUBDIR\s+1)
.TP
/usr/lib/uucp/*
other data and programs
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
mail(1),
uuclean(1M),
uucp(1C).
.SH BUGS
Only the first command of a shell pipeline may
have a
.IB system-name !\fR.
All other commands are executed on the system of the first
command.
.br
The use of the shell metacharacter
.B \(**
will probably not do what you want it to do.
The shell tokens
.B <<
and
.B >>
are not implemented.
.br
Only the first six characters of the \f2system-name\fR
are significant.
Any excess characters are ignored.
.\"	@(#)uux.1c	6.2 of 9/2/83
