'\" tc
.TH "3B20 BOOT" 8 "3B20S only"
.SH NAME
3B20boot \- 3B20S bootstrap procedures
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Lboot
is a program that is read in from the boot section of the disk in response
to the
.SM BOOT
command on the
.SM EAI
page at the console.
See
.IR eai (8)
for a description of the console operations.
Other options specified on the
.SM EAI
page control the functions performed by
.IR lboot .
.PP
If the
.SM SEC\-DISK
flag is clear on the
.SM EAI
page when the
.SM BOOT
command is issued,
moving head disk 0 is used as the boot device.
If the
.SM SEC\-DISK
flag is set,
moving head disk 1 will be used as the boot device.
The
.SM BACKUP\-ROOT
flag controls which one of two file systems on the chosen disk will be used.
If the flag is clear,
the primary root file system on the disk will be used.
If the flag is set,
the backup root file system will be used.
.PP
The
.SM PROMPT\-UNIX
System flag is used to specify the name of the program to be booted.
If the
.SM PROMPT\-UNIX
System flag is clear,
.B /unix
on the chosen file system will be booted.
If the
.SM PROMPT\-UNIX
System flag is set,
.I lboot
will ask for the name of the program to be booted.
(NOTE:\ \ To respond to
.IR lboot ,
you must be out of the
.SM EAI
command area.
Use the
.SM "NORM DISP"
or
.SM "CMD\-MSG"
key to get out of the command area.)\ 
If the name given is a directory on the chosen file system,
.I lboot
will respond with a listing of the files present in the directory.
If the name given is a normal,
executable file in
.I a.out
format,
it will be loaded into memory and control will be transferred to it.
.PP
Any standard
.B /unix
file will look at the
.SM MIN\-CONFIG
and
.SM INH\-CACHE
flags when it begins execution.
If the
.SM MIN\-CONFIG
flag is clear,
all of the peripheral devices will be brought into service.
See
.IR don (1M)
for the normal device configuration mechanism.
If the
.SM MIN\-CONFIG
flag is set,
.B /unix
will only bring the boot device,
the system console,
and a tape drive into service and only the first megabyte of main memory
will be used.
If the
.SM INH\-CACHE
flag is set,
.B /unix
will leave the cache memory disabled.
If the
.SM INH\-CACHE
flag is clear,
the cache will be enabled.
.SH SEE ALSO
don(1M),
newboot(1M),
dsk(7),
eai(8),
prm(8).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Self-explanatory messages about bad directory entries and bad file formats.
The following code words are used in success \s-1PRM\s+1s:
.PP
.RS
.TS
cI lI
l l.
Code	Meaning
dfcn	DFC number
dskn	Moving head disk number
.TE
.RE
.PP
.ne 10
The success \s-1PRM\s+1's issued during the boot process are:
.PP
.RS
.TS
cI s s s lI
lB1 lB1 lB1 lB l.
PRM	Meaning
E100	0000	\fIdfcn\fP	\fIdskn\fP	\s-1DFC\s+1 is in service
E100	BBBB	3B3B	3B3B	Specified program loaded into memory
E200	0000	0000	0ADD	\s-1UNIX\s+1 System is checking memory
E200	0000	0000	0001	\s-1UNIX\s+1 System is initializing I/O devices
E200	0000	0000	0002	\s-1UNIX\s+1 System is ready to mount \s-1ROOTDEV\s+1
EC00	3B3B	3B3B	3B3B	\s-1UNIX\s+1 System is ready to run user processes
.TE
.RE
.PP
Failure \s-1PRM\s+1's can be found in
.IR prm (8).
.SH BUGS
.I Lboot
never uses the cache memory.
.I Lboot
isn't smart enough to know what
.I a.out
files can be used as bootable
programs.
If an
.I a.out
is specified that is not a bootable program,
.I lboot
will load it in and branch to it.
What happens after that is unpredictable.
.\"	@(#)3B20boot.8	5.2 of 5/18/82
