.ds < \s-2<\h@-.2m@<\h@-.2m@<\s+2
.ds > \s-2>\h@-.2m@>\h@-.2m@>\s+2
.TH "11/780 OPS" 8 "VAX-11/780 only"
.SH NAME
780ops \- \s-1VAX\s+1-11/780 console operations
.SH DESCRIPTION
The procedures described here include the major
operational sequences involved in running the
.SM UNIX
System on the \s-1VAX\s+1-11/780 system.
Note that these procedures are different from those used on the
\s-1VAX\s+1-11/750.
For the \s-1VAX\s+1-11/750, see
.IR 750ops (8).
The following notation is used:
.TP 3
1.
Special characters are enclosed in <\^>
(e.g.,
.B <ctl>
represents the ``control'' key, and
.B <cr>
stands for the ``carriage return'' key).
.TP
2.
Items within
.BR {\^} s
are mandatory substitutions.
.SH DAILY PROCEDURES
.SS Disk Boot
This procedure can be used only on a
system with a floppy disk
updated for use with the \s-1UNIX\s+1 System.
If the floppy disk has not been so updated,
the sequences shown below under
.I "\s-1UNIX\s+1 System Floppy Update\^"
must be performed.
.PP
When the system is first turned on, the console prompt
.B \*>
is printed.
If the \s-1UNIX\s+1 System has been shut down, but not halted
(see
.IR "Bringing the System Down" ),
the operator must type
.B <ctl>p
to get into console mode.
After the prompt, type
.B H<cr>
to halt the system.
.PP
With the system halted, any of the console commands
may be executed as described below under
.IR "Console Operation" .
.PP
To boot the stand-alone shell
.RI ( sash )
from the default disk drive, the operator
types
.BR B<cr> .
Alternatively, the boot command may have an argument that selects
the boot device superceding the default.
For example,
.IP
.SM "B RP\*S0"
.PP
will boot from disk drive 0, and
.IP
.SM "B RP\*S1"
.PP
will boot from drive 1.
.PP
The following is an example of this operation,
starting after the
.BR <ctl>p
command:
.PP
.RS
.nf
.ss 18
.TP
\*>H<cr>
\s-1HALTED\s+1 \s-1AT\s+1 \f2nnnnnnnn\^\fP
.TP
\*>B<cr>
\s-1CPU\s+1 \s-1HALTED\s+1
\s-1INIT\s+1 \s-1SEQ\s+1 \s-1DONE\s+1
\s-1HALT\s+1 \s-1INST\s+1 \s-1EXECUTED\s+1
\s-1HALTED\s+1 \s-1AT\s+1 \f2nnnnnnnn\^\fP
\s-1LOAD\s+1 \s-1DONE\s+1, \f2nnnnnnnn\^\fP \s-1BYTES\s+1 \s-1LOADED\s+1
.TP
$$
.fi
.ss 12
.RE
.PP
The
.B $$
prompt indicates that the stand-alone shell
.RI ( sash )
is ready to accept commands.
If it is desired to run stand-alone
.IR fsck (1M)
(or other stand-alone functions), this is the time to do it.
The commands have the form
.BI /stand/ program\^
where
.I program\^
can be any name from a limited list of the \s-1UNIX\s+1 System commands
found in the directory
.BR /stand .
To perform a file system consistency check, type:
.PP
.RS
$$ \|/stand/fsck \|/dev/rp0
.RE
.PP
To bring up the
.SM UNIX\*S
System, the operator must type
.BR unix<cr> .
The system should come up through
SINGLE USER MODE
(\fBinit s\fR,
see
.IR init (1M)).
.PP
This is the appropriate time to do file system
backups, and
.IR fsck (1M)
should be executed if it
was not executed in the stand-alone section of the boot.
One must never operate the \s-1UNIX\s+1 System with a defective file system.
.PP
After successful completion of
.IR fsck (1M),
the operator
can bring the system to multi-user operation
by executing
.BR "init 2" .
.br
.ne 4
.SS Bringing the System Down
The shutdown procedure is designed to gracefully
turn off all processes and bring the system back
to single user state with all buffers flushed.
To do this the operator should execute
.IR shutdown (1M).
If
.IR shutdown
is not successful, use the following sequence of commands:
.PP
.RS
.nf
.ss 18
killall
sync
telinit 6
fsck (optional)
.fi
.ss 12
.RE
.PP
The system may then be halted by typing the
.B <ctl>p
and
.B H<cr>
sequence.
.SS System Dumps
After a system crash, the following procedure
should be used to get a system dump on tape.
.PP
.PD 0
.TP 3
1.
Mount a tape with write ring and bring it on-line.
.TP
2.
Enter console mode with
.BR <ctl>p .
.TP
3.
After the
.B \*>
prompt, halt the system with
.BR H<cr> .
.TP
4.
Issue the following command sequence, each command followed by
.BR <cr> :
.RS
.TP "\w'E/V\ \|@/N:3F\ \ \ \ 'u"
E \|R0/N:F
(\f2Examine R0 thru R15\^\fP)
.TP
E \|SP
(\f2Get the stack pointer for the next command\^\fP)
.TP
E/V \|@/N:3F
(\f2Examine virtual memory beginning at the
address from the previous instruction, and continuing
for the next 63 locations; i.e., examine the stack\^\fP)
.TP
S \|400
(\f2Start execution at 400, i.e., dump to tape\^\fP)
.RE
.TP
5.
Before returning to the
.SM UNIX\*S
System, execute the stand-alone
.IR fsck (1M).
.PD
.PP
To read the dump tape into a file for examination by
.IR crash (1M)
or
any other debugging program,
use
.IR dd (1).
For example, the following will read the dump and create a file named
core in the current directory:
.PP
.RS
.nf
dd if=/dev/rmt0 of=core bs=16b
.fi
.RE
.SS System Faults
On occasion, the \s-1UNIBUS\s+1 or its devices fail in such a manner
as to flood the console with error messages and
suspend operations on \s-1UNIBUS\s+1 devices.
It may be possible under these conditions to bring the
system down gracefully from an internal point-of-view, by
inhibiting \s-1UNIBUS\s+1 interrupts and running a normal shutdown.
The following sequence can be executed:
.PP
.RS
.nf
.ss 18
.ta 20n
<ctl>p
\*>\|H
\*>\|E 20006004	(\f2Look at \s-1UBA\s+1 control register\^\fP)
\*>\|D \(** 1	(\f2Clear the \s-1UBA\s+1\^\fP)
\*>\|C	(\f2Return to \s-1UNIX\s+1\^\fP)
.fi
.ss 12
.RE
.PP
You should now be able to login as \fBroot\fP and run a normal
shutdown sequence.
Reboot the system by normal means, ensuring
.IR fsck (1M)
is performed.
.br
.ne 3v
.SH INSTALLATION BOOT PROCEDURES
.SS Tape Boot
The floppy disk delivered with the \s-1VAX\s+1-11/780 does not
have tape-boot capability.
The user must type in a program
to read the first record on tape drive 0.
If tape drive 0 is a
.SM "TE\*S16-type"
tape drive, use the first program provided below.
For a
.SM "TU\*S78"
tape drive, use the second program.
Make sure the auto-restart switch in the front panel is set to the off position.
Type \f3<cr>\fP at the end of each input line:
.RS
.SS TE16 Tape Drive
.PP
.nf
.ss 18
.RS
.ta 20n
\*>\|H
\*>\|U
\*>\|I
.sp .5v
.RS
\s-1INIT\s+1 \s-1SEQ\s+1 \s-1DONE\s+1
.RE
.sp .5v
\*>\|D 20000 20008FD0
\*>\|D + D0502001
\*>\|D + 3204A001
\*>\|D + C003C08F
\*>\|D + A0D40424
\*>\|D + 8FD00C
\*>\|D + C0800000
\*>\|D + 8F320800
\*>\|D + 10A0FE00
\*>\|D + C007D0
\*>\|D + C039D004
\*>\|D + 400
\*>\|S 20000	(\f2Start tape load\^\fP)
.sp .5v
.RS
\s-1HALT\s+1 \s-1INST\s+1 \s-1EXECUTED\s+1
\s-1HALTED\s+1 \s-1AT\s+1 0002002F
.RE
.sp .5v
\*>\|S 0	(\f2Execute boot program loaded from tape\^\fP)
.fi
.ss 12
.RE
.RE
.RS
.SS TU78 Tape Drive
.PP
.nf
.ss 18
.RS
.ta 20n
\*>\|H
\*>\|U
\*>\|I
.sp .5v
.RS
\s-1INIT\s+1 \s-1SEQ\s+1 \s-1DONE\s+1
.RE
.sp .5v
\*>\|D 20000 20008FD0
\*>\|D + D4502001
\*>\|D + 8FD00CA0
\*>\|D + 80000000
\*>\|D + 320800C0
\*>\|D + A0FE008F
\*>\|D + C004D010
\*>\|D + 39320404
\*>\|D + 000400C0
\*>\|S 20000	(\f2Start tape load\^\fP)
.sp .5v
.RS
\s-1HALT\s+1 \s-1INST\s+1 \s-1EXECUTED\s+1
\s-1HALTED\s+1 \s-1AT\s+1 00020029
.RE
.sp .5v
\*>\|S 0	(\f2Execute boot program loaded from tape\^\fP)
.fi
.ss 12
.RE
.RE
.PP
From this point the loader initiates a question and
answer sequence to control the remainder of the load process.
.SS Disk Boot
The floppy disk delivered with the \s-1VAX\s+1-11/780 does not
have \s-1UNIX\s+1 system disk-boot capability.
The user must type in the following program
to read the first block on disk drive 0.
Type \f3<cr>\fP at the end of each line.
.nf
.ss 18
.PP
.RS
.ta 20n 30n
\*>\|H
\*>\|LINK		(\f2Save the following sequence on the floppy\^\f3)
		(\f2The prompt should change to \f3\*<\fR)
\*<\|H			\f2Halt processor\fP
\*<\|U			\f2Unjam the SBI\fP
\*<\|I			\f2Initialize the processor\fP
\*<\|D/I 11 20003800		\f2Register initialization\fP
\*<\|D R0 0			\f2Device type code\fP
\*<\|D R1 8			\f2NEXUS number of MBA in hex\fP
\*<\|D R2 0			\f2drive number\fP
\*<\|D R3 0			\f2drive number\fP
\*<\|D R4 0
\*<\|D R5 8			\f2Software boot flags\fP
\*<\|D FP 0			\f2Set "no machine check expected"\fP
\*<\|S 20003000		\f2Start rom program \fP
\*<\|WAIT DONE
\*<\|E SP		\f2Show address of working memory +0x200\fP
\*<\|L VMB.EXE/S:@		\f2Load primary bootstrap\fP
\*<\|S @			\f2and start it\fP
\*<\|<ctl>C		(\f2Exit\^\fP \f3\s-1LINK\s+1\fP \f2mode\^\fP)
\*>
.fi
.ss 12
.RE
.PP
You are now ready to boot the \s-1UNIX\s+1 System.
Each time it is necessary to boot (or reboot) the \s-1UNIX\s+1 System, simply
follow the sequence:
.PP
.PD 0
.RS
.TP "\w'$$ unix<cr>\ \ \ \ 'u"
\*>\|P<cr>
(\f2Execute the commands saved in floppy link file;
the console should echo each command in the file.\^\fP)
.TP
$$ unix<cr>
(\f2Load and execute \^\fP\f3/unix\fP)
.RE
.PD
.SS UNIX System Floppy Update
To update the console floppy for the \s-1UNIX\s+1 system operation,
one must have brought the \s-1UNIX\s+1 System up by one of the initial-load
procedures described above.
The following sequence can then be executed.
.PP
.RS
# \|cd \|/stand/conflp
.br
# \|sh \|update
.RE
.PP
.I Update\^
prints commentary during the
update operation indicating the files that
are being replaced or added.
Finally, a new table of contents is printed
and the available space is indicated.
.SH CONSOLE OPERATION
The following is condensed from Chapter 14 of
the
.IR "\s-1VAX\s+1-11/780 Hardware Handbook" ,
.SM DEC\*S,
1980.
.PP
The following are the standard console commands.
The most abbreviated form is shown in parentheses.
.TP 14
<ctl>\s-1P\s+1
Causes console to exit Program \s-1I/O\s+1 mode (talking
to the \s-1VAX\s+1-11/780 program).
This does
.I not\^
halt the \s-1VAX CPU\s+1.
.TP
<ctl>\s-1U\s+1
Deletes the current input line.
.TP
<del>
Deletes the previous character.
.TP
<ctl>\s-1C\s+1
Interrupts printout.
.TP
(\s-1HE\s+1)\s-1LP\s+1
Prints ``help'' file of which this is a part.
.TP
(\s-1E\s+1)\s-1XAMINE\s+1 \|{address}
Displays 8-digit hexadecimal address and its
contents.
See ``help'' file for qualifiers.
.TP
(\s-1D\s+1)\s-1EPOSIT\s+1 \|{address} \|{data}
Enters data to address.
.TP
(\s-1I\s+1)\s-1NITIALIZE\s+1
Initializes \s-1CPU\s+1.
.TP
(\s-1U\s+1)\s-1NJAM\s+1
Unjams the \s-1SBI\s+1.
.TP
(\s-1SH\s+1)\s-1OW\s+1
Displays console and \s-1CPU\s+1 state.
.TP
(\s-1H\s+1)\s-1ALT\s+1
Halts execution of \s-1VAX CPU\s+1 instructions.
.TP
(\s-1S\s+1)\s-1TART\s+1 \|{address}
Initializes \s-1CPU\s+1, enters address to \s-1PC\s+1, issues
\s-1CONTINUE\s+1 to \s-1CPU\s+1, and puts console into Program \s-1I/O\s+1 mode.
.TP
(\s-1C\s+1)\s-1ONTINUE\s+1
Starts execution of \s-1VAX CPU\s+1 instructions.
.TP
(\s-1SE\s+1)\s-1T\s+1 \|(\s-1T\s+1)\s-1ERMINAL\s+1 \|(\s-1P\s+1)\s-1ROGRAM\s+1
Puts console into Program \s-1I/O\s+1 mode.
.TP
@{file}
Causes the named floppy file to be
printed and executed.
.SH WARNINGS
Only
.B <ctl>p
can be executed from Program
\s-1I/O\s+1 mode.
It
.I "does not\^"
stop the
\s-1VAX CPU\s+1 from running.
Only
.SM
.B HALT
can be executed while the \s-1VAX CPU\s+1 is running and not in Program
\s-1I/O\s+1 mode;
therefore, the sequence to stop the
.SM VAX\*S-11/780
while running the
.SM UNIX
System (Program \s-1I/O\s+1 mode)
is:
.RS
<ctl>p
.br
\*>H<cr>
.RE
.SH FILES
/etc/shutdown
.br
/stand/\(**
.SH SEE ALSO
filesave(1M),
fsck(1M),
init(1M),
shutdown(1M),
tapeboot(8).
.\"	@(#)780ops.8	5.2 of 5/18/82
