'\" tc
.TH LDTAPE 8 "3B20S only"
.SH NAME
ldtape \- load disk from tape procedures
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Ldft
is a program loaded from tape into memory and executed in response to the
.SM LDTAPE
command on the
.SM EAI
page of the console.
(See
.IR eai (8)
and Setting up the
.SM UNIX
System in the
.I "U\s-1NIX\s+1 System Administrator's Guide"
for further details on the use of the console and setting up the
\s-1UNIX\s+1 System.)\ 
.I Ldft
is intended for use only to create a disk pack in a proper format when a
new release of the
.SM UNIX
System is installed.
.PP
To run
.IR ldft ,
mount the disk pack that is to be loaded on moving head disk drive 0 or 1,
mount
.SM LDFT
tape number 0 on tape drive unit 0,
and issue the
.SM LDTAPE
command on the
.SM EAI
page at the console.
.PP
.I Ldft
will look at the
.SM SEC\-DISK
flag and the
.SM PARAMETER
field on the
.SM EAI
when the
.SM LDTAPE
command is issued.
The disk to be loaded is specified by the
.SM SEC\-DISK
flag.
Moving head disk 0 is used if the flag is clear.
Moving head disk 1 is used if the flag is set.
.PP
If the
.SM PARAMETER
field contains an
.B f
or an
.BR F ,
.I ldft
will format the disk in the specified drive before continuing.
(The format should be done unless it is known that the disk pack has
already been formatted.)\ 
.PP
.I Ldft
will then rewind the tape and issue a success
Processor Recovery Message (\s-1PRM\s+1)
asking for
.SM LDFT
tape number 1 to be mounted.
(See the diagnostics section below.)\ 
Mount the next tape and issue another
.SM LDTAPE
command.
.I Ldft
will read the tape copying data to disk as it is read.
When the end of tape is found,
.I ldft
will rewind the tape.
If another
.SM LDFT
tape is expected,
.I ldft
will issue a success
.SM PRM
requesting the next tape.
When the last
.SM LDFT
tape has been read,
.I ldft
will issue a success
.SM PRM
similar to a request for the next tape with the
tape number field containing
.BR BBBB .
When this point is reached,
the disk has been loaded and can be booted.
See
.IR 3B20boot (8)
for boot procedures.
.SH SEE ALSO
3B20boot(8),
eai(8),
prm(8).
.br
Setting up the
.SM UNIX
System in the
.IR "U\s-1NIX\s+1 System Administrator's Guide" .
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.ne 7
The following code words are used in success \s-1PRM\s+1's from
.IR ldft :
.PP
.RS
.TS
cI lI
l l.
Code	Meaning
cyls	50 cylinder disk section number
sect	Tape section number
tape	Tape reel number
.TE
.RE
.PP
.ne 7
The following success \s-1PRM\s+1's are generated by
.IR ldft :
.PP
.RS
.TS
cI s s s lI
lB1 lB1 lB1 lB l.
PRM	Meaning
E100	7000	0000	0000	IOP, tape, and DFC in service
E100	7100	\fItape\fP	0000	Request to mount tape
E100	7500	\fIsect\fP	\fItape\fP	Section header read successfully
EF00	0000	\fIcyls\fP	0000	Starting disk section format
.TE
.RE
.PP
Failure \s-1PRM\s+1's are listed in
.IR prm (8).
.\"	@(#)ldtape.8	5.2 of 5/18/82
