.TH EXP 3M
.SH NAME
exp, log, log10, pow, sqrt \- exponential, logarithm, power, square root functions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <math.h>
.PP
.B double exp (x)
.B double x;
.PP
.B double log (x)
.B double x;
.PP
.B double log10 (x)
.B double x;
.PP
.B double pow (x, y)
.B double x, y;
.PP
.B double sqrt (x)
.B double x;
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Exp\^
returns
.IR e\u\s8x\s10\d .
.PP
.I Log\^
returns the natural logarithm of
.IR x .
The value of
.I x\^
must be positive.
.PP
.I Log10\^
returns the logarithm base ten of
.IR x .
The value of
.I x\^
must be positive.
.PP
.I Pow\^
returns
.IR x\u\s8y\s10\d .
The values of
.I x\^
and
.I y\^
may not both be zero.
If
.I x\^
is non-positive,
.I y\^
must be an integer.
.PP
.I Sqrt\^
returns the square root of
.IR x .
The value of
.I x\^
may not be negative.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.I Exp\^
returns
.SM
.B HUGE
when the correct value would
overflow,
and sets
.I errno\^
to
.SM
.BR ERANGE\*S .
.PP
.I Log\^
and
.I log10
return 0
and set
.I errno\^
to
.SM
.B EDOM
when
.I x\^
is non-positive.
An error message is printed on the standard error output.
.PP
.I Pow\^
returns 0
and sets
.I errno\^
to
.SM
.B EDOM
when
.I x\^
is non-positive and
.I y\^
is not an integer, or when
.I x\^
and
.I y\^
are both zero.
In these cases a message indicating \s-1DOMAIN\s+1 error is 
printed on the standard error output.
When the correct value for
.I pow\^
would overflow,
.I pow\^
returns
.SM
.B HUGE
and sets
.I errno\^
to
.SM
.B ERANGE.
.PP
.I Sqrt\^
returns 0
and sets
.I errno\^
to
.SM
.B EDOM
when
.I x\^
is negative.
A message indicating \s-1DOMAIN\s+1 error is
printed on the standard error output.
.PP
These error-handling procedures may be changed with the function
.IR matherr (3M).
.SH SEE ALSO
hypot(3M),
matherr(3M),
sinh(3M).
.\"	@(#)exp.3m	5.2 of 5/18/82
