.TH ACU 7
.SH NAME
acu, dn \- Automatic Call Unit (\s-1ACU\s+1) interface
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.SM ACU
drivers support
.IR open,
.IR close,
and
.IR write
system calls.
In addition, the \fIUN56\fR driver on the 3B20S supports an
.IR ioctl
system call.
The
.B acu?
and
.B dn?
files are write-only.
The
.I write\^
system call sends the telephone number to be dialed to the
.SM ACU.
The permissible codes are:
.PP
.RS
.PD 0
.TP .75i
.BR 0 - 9
dial 0-9
.TP
.BR \(** " or " :
dial
.B \(**
.TP
.BR # " or " ;
dial
.B #
.TP
.B \-
4 second delay for second dial tone
.TP
.BR e " or " <
end-of-number
.TP
.BR w " or " =
wait for secondary dial tone
.TP
.B f
flash off hook for 1 second
.RE
.PD
.PP
The entire telephone number must be
presented in a single
.I write\^
system call.
.PP
The
.I ioctl
system call (\fIUN56\fR only) is invoked as follows:
.PP
.RS
#include \|<sys/un56\f3.\fPh>
.br
int fildes, cmd;
.br
struct acutab *acutp;
.br
ioctl (fildes, cmd, acutp);
.RE
.PP
.I Acutab\^
is a table specifying the connections between
\s-1ACU\s+1 minor devices and communication lines:
.PP
.RS
.nf
struct acutab {
	int minor;
	int unit;
	int port;
	int line;
} acutab[];
.fi
.RE
.PP
The
.IR ioctl
.I cmds
are:
.HP 7
\s-1ACUSDEV\s+1\-Specify a connection
between an \s-1ACU\s+1 minor device
and a telephone line.
This command makes an entry in 
.IR acutab ,
the table that specifies associations between 
\s-1ACU\s+1 minor devices and dial-out lines.
Before the \s-1ACU\s+1s can be used,
and after any \s-1ACU\s+1 reconfiguration,
this table must be sent to the \s-1ACU\s+1 
peripheral controller via the \s-1ACUSTART\s+1
command.
.HP 7
\s-1ACUSTART\s+1\-Connect \s-1ACU\s+1 minor devices
to telephone lines.
This command informs the \s-1ACU\s+1 peripheral controller
of the connections set up by the \s-1ACUSDEV\s+1 command
and enables it.
.SH SEE ALSO
acuset(1M).
.SH FILES
/dev/acu*	(3B20S only)
.br
/dev/un56	(3B20S only)
.br
/dev/dn*	(\s-1DEC\s+1 only)
.\"	@(#)acu.7	5.2 of 5/18/82
