.TH DMK 7 "DEC only"
.SH NAME
dmk \- \s-1DM\s+1\&11-\s-1BA\s+1 modem control multiplexor
.SH DESCRIPTION
The files
.B /dev/dmk?
are used to access
.SM DM11-BA
modem control units.
Each
.SM DM11-BA
provides modem control and status information
for eight synchronous lines.
The
.SM DM11-BA
is an optional component of the
.SM KMS\*S11
communications processor
(see
.IR vpm (7)).
Since the
.SM VPM
software for the
.SM KMS\*S11
does not provide any access to the
\s-1DM11-BA\s+1,
it is necessary to use the
.I dmk
driver if modem control is required with the
\s-1KMS11\s+1.
.PP
The
.IR ioctl (2)
function is used to provide access to the basic
modem control capabilities:
.PP
.RS
.nf
#include <sys/dmk.h>
ioctl \|(fildes, \|command, \|arg)
struct \|dmkctl \|{
	short	line;
	short	mode;
} \|\(**arg;
.fi
.RE
.PP
The only
.I command
available is
.SM DMKSETM\*S.
The effect of this command is to
set the control leads in the modem interface
for the line (0-7) specified by
.I line
to the state specified by
.IR mode .
The bits in
.I mode
specify control leads to be asserted as follows:
.PP
.ta \w'MAXMAX\ \ 'u +\w'0100000\ \ 'u
.RS
\fIName\fP	\fIBit\fP	\fIMeaning\fP
.nf
\s-1DMKDTR\s+1	002	Data Terminal Ready
\s-1DMKRTS\s+1	004	Request to Send
\s-1DMKNS\s+1	010	New Sync
.DT
.fi
.RE
.PD
.SH FILES
/dev/dmk?
.SH "SEE ALSO"
x25pvc(1M),
vpm(7).
.br
"KMS11-A/B Communications Processor Option Description",
YM-C126C-00, Digital Equipment Corporation.
.br
"DM11-BA Modem Control Multiplexor Option Description",
YM-C138C-00, Digital Equipment Corporation.
.\"	@(#)dmk.7	5.2 of 5/18/82
