.TH KMC 7 "DEC only"
.SH NAME
kmc \- \s-1KMC\s+1\&-11B/\s-1KMS\s+1\&11 microprocessor
.SH DESCRIPTION
The files
.B kmc?
are used to manipulate the
.SM KMC11-B
or
.SM KMS\*S11
microprocessor.
The device handler provides the basic mechanism needed
to load, run, and debug programs on the microprocessor.
The open is exclusive; at most one open at a time.
.PP
Addresses 0\-8195 reference the 4096 words of instructions
in the control memory of the
microprocessor.
This portion is word oriented, that is, the address and byte count
must be even.
.PP
Addresses 8196\-12211 reference the 4096 bytes of data in
the data memory of the
microprocessor.
The data portion may be read or written with no restrictions on
addressing.
.PP
The
.IR ioctl (2)
function is used to provide access to the basic
microprocessor capabilities.
.PP
.RS
.nf
#include <sys/kmc.h>
ioctl \|(fildes, \|command, \|arg)
struct \|kmcntl \|{
	int	kmd;
	short	\(**kcsr;
	int	kval;
} \|\(**arg;
.fi
.RE
.PP
The only
.I command
available is
.SM KCSETA\*S.
The pointer
.I kcsr\^
contains the address of a 4 word buffer for the
.SM UNIBUS
Control and Status Registers associated with
the microprocessor.
The value of
.I kmd\^
determines the function:
.PP
.PD 0
.RS
.TP .5i
1
single step and return \s-1CSR\s+1s in
.IR kcsr .
.TP
2
maintenance step: execute 
.I value\^
and then return \s-1CSR\s+1s.
.TP
3
return \s-1CSR\s+1s.
.TP
4
stop: clear the run bit.
.TP
5
reset: set then clear the master clear bit.
.TP
6
run: set the run bit and set the software state to
.I kval\^
and running.
.TP
7
line unit maintenance: set the line unit bits from
.IR kval .
.TP
8
set \s-1CSR\s+1 sel6 to
.IR kval .
.TP
9
clear: first reset, then empty the input queue.
.RE
.PD
.SH FILES
/dev/kmc?
.SH "SEE ALSO"
kasb(1), dz(7), vpm(7).
.\"	@(#)kmc.7	5.2 of 5/18/82
