'\" t
.TH RP07 7 "VAX-11/780 only"
.SH NAME
rp07 \- \s-1RP\s+1\&07 non-removable medium moving-head disk
.SH DESCRIPTION
The files
.BR rp0 ", " ... ", " rp7
refer to sections of the
\s-1RP\s+1\&07 disk drive 0.
The files
.BR rp10 ", " ... ", " rp17
refer to drive 1, etc.
This slicing allows the pack
to be broken up
into more manageable pieces.
.PP
The origin and size of the sections on each drive are
as follows:
.PP
.RS
.TS
cI cI cI
c n n.
section	start	length
0	0	64000
1	40	944000
2	105	840000
3	210	672000
4	315	504000
5	420	336000
6	525	168000
7	0	1008000
.TE
.RE
.PP
The start address is a cylinder address,
with each cylinder containing 1600 blocks.
It is extremely unwise for all of these files to be present in one installation,
since there is overlap in addresses and protection becomes
a sticky matter.
.PP
The
.B rp
files
access the disk via the system's normal
buffering mechanism
and may be read and written without regard to
physical disk records.
There is also a ``raw'' interface
which provides for direct transmission between the disk
and the user's read or write buffer.
A single read or write call results in exactly
one
I/O
operation
and therefore raw
I/O
is considerably more efficient when
many words are transmitted.
The names of the raw
.SM RP
files
begin with
.B rrp
and end with a number which selects the same disk
section as the corresponding
.B rp
file.
.PP
In raw
I/O
the buffer must begin on a word boundary,
and counts should be a multiple of 512 bytes
(a disk block).
Likewise
.IR lseek (2)\^
calls should specify a multiple of 512 bytes.
.SH FILES
/dev/rp\(**, /dev/rrp\(**
.SH SEE ALSO
gd(7), hm(7), hp(7), rp(7), rm80(7).
.\"	@(#)rp07.7	5.2 of 5/18/82
