.TH ST 7
.SH NAME
st \- synchronous terminal interface
.SH DESCRIPTION
The synchronous terminal interface is a pseudo-device driver that enables
a \s-1UNIX\s+1 System to communicate with
\s-1TELETYPE\s+1\*R Model 4540 compatible \s-1ASCII\s+1 synchronous terminals.
The driver utilizes the bottom half of the Virtual Protocol Machine
(\s-1VPM\s+1)
to perform the end-to-end protocol
and transmission assurance for the synchronous line.
.PP
There are two modes of operation for synchronous terminals;
application mode and line mode.
In application mode,
the user must be familiar with the operation of the Model 4540
terminal.
Screen management functions are completely controlled by the user process;
when formating a screen, the user must supply everything from
the initial \s-1STX\s+1 (Start-of-Text) character
to the \s-1ETX\s+1 (End-of-Text) character.
.PP
In line mode,
the basic screen management functions are handled by the driver to make the
synchronous terminal usable as a login terminal for most of the standard
.SM UNIX
System
commands.
(Commands that put the terminal in raw mode or write any control characters
to the screen will probably not work as expected.)\ 
Writes to the terminal will be packaged in the necessary protocol so
that only terminal operator input will be returned to the user process on a
.IR read (2).
See
.IR stty (1)
for details on setting these modes and other available options.
.PP
By convention,
.B /dev/st?
is the synchronous terminal control channel for communications line
.BR ? .
Communication with the control channel is handled by the
.I stcntrl\^
and
.I stprint\^
commands
(see 
.IR st (1M)).
.PP
A user process will sleep when trying to open a terminal
channel,
until a terminal requests service.
At that time, a channel will be assigned to that terminal,
and it will remain allocated until the user process
closes the terminal.
.PP
A user process will not sleep when trying to open a printer channel.
Printer channel connections are established by
.I stprint\^
and remain in effect until the associated communications line drops.
.PP
In addition to the synchronous terminal equipment,
appropriate synchronous \s-1VPM\s+1 hardware
is required.
.SH FILES
.br
.ns
.TP 15
/lib/stscr
synchronous terminal prototype script
.br
.ns
.TP 15
/dev/un53.?
\s-1TN82/UN53\s+1 peripheral controller pair (3B20S only)
.br
.ns
.TP 15
/dev/kmc?
\s-1KMC11-B\s+1 microprocessor (\s-1DEC\s+1 only)
.br
.ns
.TP 15
/dev/vpb?
\s-1VPM\s+1 bottom half (\s-1DEC\s+1 only)
.br
.ns
.TP 15
/dev/st?
synchronous terminal control channels
.br
.ns
.TP 15
/dev/tty\(**
synchronous terminal user channels
.br
.ns
.TP
/dev/sp\(**
synchronous printer user channels
.PP
In addition to the standard
.I ioctl\^
functions listed in
.IR stermio (7),
the commands defined in
.B /usr/include/sys/stermio.h
are provided with the following interfaces:
.IP
ioctl(stcontrolfd, \s-1STPRINT\s+1, device)
.br
char	device;
.PP
tells the driver that a printer is at the device address specified by
.I device\^
on the synchronous communications line associated with
.IR stcontrolfd .
The return value is the minor device number associated with the printer.
A \-1 is returned if the association can't be made.
(Too many printers are already associated or the communications line is not
connected.)
.IP
ioctl(stcontrolfd, \s-1VPMSDEV\s+1, arg);
.PP
will assign \s-1VPM\s+1 minor device number
.I arg\^
to the line associated with
.IR stcontrolfd .
.IP
ioctl(stcontrolfd, \s-1STSTART\s+1);
.PP
tells the driver to start up the line associated with
.IR stcontrolfd .
If this is the first line started,
buffer space will be allocated from physical memory for use by all lines.
.IP
ioctl(stcontrolfd, \s-1STHALT\s+1);
.PP
tells the driver to stop the line associated with
.IR stcontrolfd .
If this is the last active line,
the buffer space allocated on the first
.SM STSTART
will be returned to the system.
.IP
ioctl(stfd, \s-1STWLINE\s+1);
.PP
returns the synchronous communications line number associated with the
terminal,
printer,
or control channel file descriptor
.IR stfd .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
st(1M), kmc(7), stermio(7), trace(7), un53(7), vpm(7).
.\"	@(#)st.7	5.2 of 5/18/82
