.TH UN52 7 "3B20S only"
.SH NAME
un52 \- magnetic tape interface
.SH DESCRIPTION
The files
.BR tp? ,
.BR tp?h ,
.B tp?n
and
.B tp?hn
refer to the
.SM UN\*S52
magnetic tape controllers and associated transports.
Only 1600bpi is available
on the
.SM UN\*S52,
while 1600/6250bpi densities are available on the
.SM UN\*S52B.
The files
are designated
.B tp?
for 1600bpi rewind-on-close,
.B tp?n
for 1600bpi no-rewind on close,
.B tp?h
for 6250bpi rewind-on-close, and
.B tp?hn
for 6250bpi no-rewind on close.
.PP
The tape is assumed to be positioned as desired when opened.
If the file was opened for writing a double file mark is
written on the tape when closed;
if the file was normal-rewind, the tape is rewound,
otherwise the tape is positioned before the second file mark.
If the file was opened read-only, and if the file was normal-rewind, the
tape is rewound, otherwise the tape is positioned after the file mark
following the data just read.
Once opened, reading is restricted to
between the position when opened and the next
file mark or the last write.
A file mark is returned as a zero-length read.
.PP
A standard tape consists of
several 512 byte records terminated by a file mark.
To the extent possible, the system makes
it possible to treat the tape like any other file.
Seeks have their usual meaning and it is possible
to read or write a byte at a time (although inadvisable).
.PP
The
.B tp
files discussed above are useful
when it is desired to access the tape in a way
compatible with ordinary files.
When foreign tapes are to be dealt with, or
when large records are to be read or written, the
``raw'' interface is appropriate.
The associated files are named
.BR rtp? ,
.BR rtp?n ,
.B rtp?h
and
.BR rtp?hn .
Each
.I read\^
or
.I write\^
call reads or writes the next record on the tape.
During a write, the record has the same length as the
buffer given.
During a read, the record size is passed
back as the number of bytes read,
up to the buffer size specified.
If the record was larger than the buffer size, the extra
data is discarded.
The buffer must begin on a word boundary,
and the count must be an even
number and cannot be greater than 6144 bytes.
Seeks are ignored.
.SH FILES
/dev/tp\(**, /dev/rtp\(**
.SH BUGS
Once a file mark or any drive error is encountered, it refuses to do
anything more until closed.
.\"	@(#)un52.7	5.2 of 5/18/82
