.TH "3B20 OPS" 8 "3B20S only"
.SH NAME
3B20ops \- 3B20S console operations
.SH DESCRIPTION
The daily procedures involved in running the \s-1UNIX\s+1 System on the 3B20S system
are described here.
.SS "Disk Boot"
See
.IR 3B20boot (8)
for a complete description of how to boot the machine from disk.
The
.B #
prompt indicates that
the system has come up through
.B "init S"
(see
.IR init (1M))
and that
the shell
is ready to accept commands.
.PP
This is the appropriate time to do file system backups,
and
.IR fsck (1M)
should be executed.
One must never operate the system
with a defective file system.
.PP
After successful completion of
.IR fsck ,
the operator can bring the system to multi-user
operation by executing
.BR "init 2" .
.SS "Bringing the System Down"
The shutdown procedure is designed
to gracefully turn off all processes
and bring the system back
to single user state
with all buffers flushed.
To do this
the operator can execute
.IR shutdown (1M)
or the following sequence of commands:
.sp
.RS
.nf
killall
sync
telinit 6
fsck (optional)
.fi
.RE
.sp
The system may then be halted
using the Emergency Action Interface
(see
.IR eai (8)).
.SS "System Dumps"
After a system crash the procedure outlined in
.IR eai (8)
should be followed to dump the contents of memory
to the disk.
Then the dump can be analyzed using
.IR crash (1M)
and the
.BI /dev/dump ?
file
(see
.IR dsk (7)).
To save the dump for later examination,
the dump may
be copied
to a file
using the command:
.PP
.RS
dd \|if=/dev/dump\fIU\fP \|of=savefile
.RE
.PP
where \fIU\fP is the unit (drive) number
of the disk containing the dump.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
crash(1M),
date(1),
filesave(1M),
fsck(1M),
init(1M),
shutdown(1M),
system(4),
3B20boot(8),
eai(8).
.\"	@(#)3B20ops.8	5.2 of 5/18/82
