'\" t
.ds < \s-2<\h@-.2m@<\h@-.2m@<\s+2
.ds > \s-2>\h@-.2m@>\h@-.2m@>\s+2
.TH "11/750 OPS" 8 "VAX-11/750 only" 
.SH NAME
750ops \- \s-1VAX\s+1-11/750 console operations
.SH DESCRIPTION
The procedures described here include the major
operational sequences involved in running the
.SM UNIX
System on the \s-1VAX\s+1-11/750 system.
Note that these procedures are different
from those used on the \s-1VAX\s+1-11/780.
For the \s-1VAX\s+1-11/780, see
.IR 780ops (8).
The following notation is used:
.TP 3
1.
Special characters are enclosed in <\^>
(e.g.,
.B <ctl>
represents the ``control'' key, and
.B <cr>
stands for the ``carriage return'' key).
.TP
2.
Items within
.BR {\^} s
are mandatory substitutions.
.TP
3.
Items within
.BR [\^]s
are optional.
.SH DAILY PROCEDURES
.SS Disk Boot
There is no floppy disk drive and controller supplied with the console
subsystem of the \s-1VAX\s+1-11/750,
nor an \s-1LSI\s+1-11 microprocessor as in the \s-1VAX\s+1-11/780.
Instead a \s-1TU\s+158 tape cartridge is provided in the \s-1CPU\s+1 cabinet.
It may be used to boot the system (i.e., the bootstrap procedure can be
stored in this cartridge).
.PP
When the system is first turned on, the console prompt
.B \*>
is printed.
If the \s-1UNIX\s+1 System has been shut down, but not halted
(see
.IR "Bringing the System Down" ),
the operator must type
.B <ctl>p
to get into console mode.
This also halts the \s-1CPU\s+1.
.PP
With the system halted, any of the console commands
may be executed as described below under
.IR "Console Operation" .
.PP
To boot the stand-alone shell
.RI ( sash )
from the default disk drive, the operator
types
.BR B<cr> .
The following is an example of this operation
as seen on the console, picking up after the
.BR <ctl>p :
.PP
.RS
.nf
.ss 18
.TP
\*>B<cr>
\s-1%%\s+1
.TP
$$
.fi
.ss 12
.RE
.PP
There is a four-position switch in the front panel that selects the
boot device.
The boot command will boot from the device selected by this switch.
Alternately, the boot command may have an argument that selects the
boot device superseding the switch-selected one.
.PP
.RS
.nf
.ss 18
.TP
\*>B [ddcu] <cr>
.fi
.ss 12
.RE
.PP
where
.I dd
is a device code from:
.TS
center box;
c c
l l.
Code	Device
_
\s-1DL\s+1	\s-1RL\s+1\&01/02
\s-1DB\s+1	\s-1RP\s+1\&04/05/06/07, \s-1RM\s+1\&03, \s-1RM\s+1\&80
\s-1DD\s+1	\s-1DECTAPE II\s+1 Cartridge (\s-1TU\s+158)
\s-1DM\s+1	\s-1RK\s+1\&06/07
.TE
.PP
.I c
specifies the I/O channel adapter and
.I u
is one digit identifying the device drive number.
For example,
.PP
.RS
.nf
.ss 18
.TP
\*>B DDA0 <cr>
.fi
.ss 12
.RE
.PP
will boot from the TU58.
.PP
The
.B $$
prompt indicates that the stand-alone shell
.RI ( sash )
is ready to accept commands.
If it is desired to run stand-alone
.IR fsck (1M)
(or other stand-alone functions), this is the time to do it.
The commands have the form
.BI /stand/ program\^
where
.I program\^
can be any name from a limited list of the \s-1UNIX\s+1 System commands
found in the directory
.BR /stand .
To perform a file system consistency check, type:
.PP
.RS
$$ \|/stand/fsck \|/dev/rp0
.RE
.PP
To bring up the
.SM UNIX\*S,
System the operator must type
.BR unix<cr> .
The system should come up through
SINGLE USER MODE
(\fBinit s\fR,
see
.IR init (1M)).
.PP
This is the appropriate time to do file system
backups, and
.IR fsck (1M)
should be executed if it
was not executed in the stand-alone section of the boot.
One must never operate the \s-1UNIX\s+1 System with a defective file system.
.PP
After successful completion of
.IR fsck (1M),
the operator
can bring the system to multi-user operation
by executing
.BR "init 2" .
.br
.ne 4
.SS Bringing the System Down
The shutdown procedure is designed to gracefully
turn off all processes and bring the system back
to single user state with all buffers flushed.
To do this the operator should execute
.IR shutdown (1M).
If
.IR shutdown
is not successful, use the following sequence of commands:
.PP
.RS
.nf
.ss 18
killall
sync
telinit 6
fsck (optional)
.fi
.ss 12
.RE
.PP
The system may then be halted by typing 
.B <ctl>p.
.SS System Dumps
After a system crash, the following procedure
should be used to get a system dump on tape.
.PP
.PD 0
.TP 3
1.
Mount a tape with write ring and bring it on-line.
.TP
2.
Halt the system and enter console mode with
.BR <ctl>p .
.TP
3.
Issue the following command sequence, each command followed by
.BR <cr> :
.RS
.TP
E/G 0
(\f2Keep typing E's until all registers have been examined: R0 thru R15\^\fP)
.TP
S \|400
(\f2Start execution at 400, i.e., dump to tape\^\fP)
.RE
.TP
4.
Before returning to the
.SM UNIX\*S,
System execute the stand-alone
.IR fsck (1M).
.PD
.SH INSTALLATION BOOT PROCEDURE
.SS Tape Boot
If tape drive 0 is a
.SM "TS\*S11-type"
tape drive, use the first program provided below.
For a
.SM "TU\*S77"
tape drive, use the second program.
Make sure the power-on-action switch in the front panel is set
to `halt'.
Type \f3<cr>\fP at the end of each input line:
.RS
.SS TS11 Tape Drive
.PP
.nf
.ss 18
.ta 20n
\*>\|H
\*>\|I
.sp .5v
\*>\|D/P 200 00008FD0
\*>\|D + D05A00F3
\*>\|D + 0000008F
\*>\|D + 0800CA80
\*>\|D + 00008FC1
\*>\|D + CA018000
\*>\|D + 8FC10804
\*>\|D + 00FFE000
\*>\|D + 0015508F
\*>\|D + ABB45B00
\*>\|D + 02AB9502
\*>\|D + 8FB0FB18
\*>\|D + 986B0244
\*>\|D + AB955901
\*>\|D + B0FB1802
\*>\|D + 6B02548F
\*>\|D + 00F359F4
\*>\|D + 024CC004
\*>\|D + 00080000
\*>\|D + 0000025C
\*>\|D + 0000000E
\*>\|D + 0000C001
\*>\|D + 02000000
\*>\|S 200	(\f2Start tape load\^\fP)
.sp .5v
.RS
00000244 06
.RE
.sp .5v
\*>\|S 0	(\f2Execute boot program loaded from tape\^\fP)
.fi
.ss 12
.RE
.RS
.SS TU77 Tape Drive
.PP
.nf
.ss 18
.ta 20n
\*>\|H
\*>\|I
.sp .5v
\*>\|D 20000 A0008FD0
\*>\|D + D05000F2
\*>\|D + 3204A001
\*>\|D + C003C08F
\*>\|D + A0D40424
\*>\|D + 8FD00C
\*>\|D + C0800000
\*>\|D + 8F320800
\*>\|D + 10A0FE00
\*>\|D + C007D0
\*>\|D + C039D004
\*>\|D + 400
\*>\|S 20000	(\f2Start tape load\^\fP)
.sp .5v
.RS
0002002F 06
.RE
.sp .5v
\*>\|S 0	(\f2Execute boot program loaded from tape\^\fP)
.fi
.ss 12
.RE
.PP
From this point the loader initiates a question and
answer sequence to control the remainder of the load process.
.PD
.SH CONSOLE OPERATION
The following is condensed from Chapter 6 of
the
.IR "\s-1VAX\s+1 Hardware Handbook" ,
.SM DEC\*S,
1980\-81.
.PP
The following are the standard console commands.
The most abbreviated form is shown in parentheses.
.TP 14
<ctl>\s-1P\s+1
Puts the machine in Console I/O mode and
halts the processor.
A halt message is printed.
.TP
<ctl>\s-1U\s+1
Deletes the current input line.
.TP
<del>
Deletes the previous character.
.TP
(\s-1E\s+1)\s-1XAMINE\s+1 \|{address}
Displays 8-digit hexadecimal address and its
contents.
.TP
(\s-1D\s+1)\s-1EPOSIT\s+1 \|{address} \|{data}
Enters data to address.
(Refer to 
.IR "\s-1VAX\s+1 Hardware Handbook"
for \s-1EXAMINE\s+1 and \s-1DEPOSIT\s+1 qualifiers.)
.TP
(\s-1I\s+1)\s-1NITIALIZE\s+1
Initializes \s-1CPU\s+1.
.TP
(\s-1H\s+1)\s-1ALT\s+1
The \s-1HALT\s+1 command is implemented on the
\s-1VAX\s+1-11/750 for the sake of consistency with the
\s-1VAX\s+1-11/780.
It does not actually halt the \s-1CPU\s+1 since the \s-1CPU\s+1
must already be halted to respond to the command (see
.BR <ctl>P
above).
It does reset the console defaults.
.TP
(\s-1S\s+1)\s-1TART\s+1 \|{address}
Initializes \s-1CPU\s+1, enters address to \s-1PC\s+1, issues
\s-1CONTINUE\s+1 to \s-1CPU\s+1, and puts console into Program \s-1I/O\s+1 mode.
.TP
(\s-1C\s+1)\s-1ONTINUE\s+1
Allows the user to restart a halted program without altering the state of
the machine.
.SH FILES
/etc/shutdown
.br
/stand/\(**
.SH SEE ALSO
filesave(1M),
fsck(1M),
init(1M),
shutdown(1M),
tapeboot(8).
.\"	@(#)750ops.8	5.2 of 5/18/82
