.TH EAI 8 "3B20S only"
.SH NAME
eai \- 3B20S emergency action interface
.SH DESCRIPTION
The functions of the 3B20S Emergency Action Interface (\s-1EAI\s+1)
on the system console are described below.
.SS "Function Keys"
Four special function keys,
labeled \s-1EA\s+1 \s-1DISP\s+1,
\s-1NORM\s+1 \s-1DISP\s+1,
\s-1CMD/MSG\s+1
and \s-1ALM\s+1 \s-1RLS\s+1
are on the keyboard of the system console:
.TP \w'NORM\ DISP\ \ 'u
.SM
EA DISP
This key starts the emergency action mode
and causes the \s-1EAI\s+1 display,
consisting
of status indicators
and a menu of commands,
to appear
on the top half
of the screen.
Status indicators are updated
every two seconds
or as changes occur.
If the \s-1UNIX\s+1 System is running,
then the bottom half of the screen
may be used
as a login terminal
and will scroll
without affecting the \s-1EAI\s+1 display.
If the \s-1EAI\s+1 display is already present,
then depressing this key will cause
the screen to be updated.
.TP
.SM
NORM DISP
This key ends the \s-1EAI\s+1 mode,
erases the \s-1EAI\s+1 display
and leaves the screen blank.
The full screen is now available
as a \s-1UNIX\s+1 System login terminal.
.TP
.SM
CMD/MSG
This key toggles the cursor
between the command entry area
and the \s-1UNIX\s+1 System portion
(bottom half message section)
of the screen.
\s-1EAI\s+1 commands can be entered
only when the cursor is in the
command entry position
(next to
.SM
.BR CMD\*S: ).
This key is effective only
when the screen is in \s-1EAI\s+1 mode.
.TP
.SM
ALM RLS
This key currently performs no function.
.SS "Status Indicators"
.TP \w'NORM\ DISP\ \ 'u
.SM
MTTY
A single digit incremented
once every two seconds
that indicates the ability
of the Maintenance \s-1TTY\s+1 Peripheral Controller (\s-1MTTYPC\s+1) to update
the \s-1EAI\s+1 display.
.TP
.SM
3BCC
A series of five indicators
describing the current state
of the 3B20S processor as seen
by the \s-1EAI\s+1.
.RS
.TP \w'RCVRY\ \ 'u
.SM
ACT
The 3B20S processor is on-line
(it has I/O access).
.TP
.SM
RUN
The 3B20S is processing instructions
(not stopped or halted).
.TP
.SM
FONL
The 3B20S is forced to be the on-line
processor
(I/O is allowed)
and the Diagnostic Processor (\s-1DP\s+1)
cannot gain I/O access.
.TP
.SM
FOFL
The 3B20S is forced to be the off-line
processor
(I/O is inhibited)
and cannot gain I/O access.
.TP
.SM
RCVRY
3B20S microcode has signaled
the start
of processor recovery.
.RE
.TP \w'NORM\ DISP\ \ 'u
.SM
DPCC
A series of five indicators describing
the current state
of the \s-1DP\s+1
as seen by \s-1DP\s+1 microcode.
These are the same as the indicators
for 3\s-1BCC\s+1 above,
with the role of the 3B20S and the \s-1DP\s+1
interchanged.
.TP
.SM
SCCS
currently unused.
.TP
.SM
EAI
A single indicator with three possible states
describing the state
of the link between the
\s-1EAI\s+1 and the \s-1MTTYPC\s+1.
.RS
.TP \w'ASW\ \ 'u
.SM
ASW
All Seems Well.
.TP
.SM
ERR
The \s-1EAI\s+1 can communicate with the \s-1MTTYPC\s+1
but there are problems.
.TP
.SM
OOS
The \s-1EAI\s+1 is unable to communicate with the \s-1MTTYPC\s+1.
.RE
.TP \w'NORM\ DISP\ \ 'u
.SM
DPI
Same as \s-1EAI\s+1, but indicates the state of
the link between the \s-1DP\s+1 and the \s-1MTTYPC\s+1.
.TP
.SM
TIMEOUT
This appears
only if the \s-1EAI\s+1
has not received
a low priority
Processor Recovery Message (\s-1PRM\s+1)
within a seventy second time period.
This is an indication of lack of sanity
of the 3B20S processor.
.TP
.SM
3BPRM
Processor Recovery Message (\s-1PRM\s+1)
from the 3B20S processor.
.TP
.SM
DPPRM
\s-1PRM\s+1 from the Diagnostic Processor.
.SS Commands
Commands can be entered
only when the cursor
is positioned in the top
left-hand corner of the screen
next to
.SM
.BR "CMD\*S:" .
A command is entered
by keying in the number associated
with the command
by the \s-1EAI\s+1 display menu.
Commands may be terminated
either by a carriage return
or by an exclamation point
.RB ( ! ).
A character may be erased
by a backspace or an underscore.
A line may be killed with a
dollar sign
.RB ( $ ).
When a line is entered,
the \s-1EAI\s+1 responds with
.SM
.B OK
for a successfully entered command,
or
.SM
.B NG
for an invalid command.
.PP
Commands \fB60\fP\-\fB65\fP cause immediate action when they are entered.
Commands \fB60\fP\-\fB62\fP
refer to the Diagnostic Processor (\s-1DP\s+1),
which will be supplied in the future as an option.
.TP \w'64\ PRM\-DUMP\ \ 'u
60 3B\-\s-1FONL\s+1
Forces the 3B20S processor
on-line,
allowing the \s-13B20S\s+1 processor \s-1I/O\s+1 access
and inhibiting the \s-1DP\s+1 I/O access.
Any diagnostics that were running
on the \s-1DP\s+1 are aborted.
.TP
61 \s-1DP\s+1\-\s-1FONL\s+1
Forces the 3B20S processor
off-line,
inhibiting the 3B20S processor I/O access
and allowing the \s-1DP\s+1 I/O access.
If the \s-1UNIX\s+1 System was running on the 3B20S,
then it is aborted.
The \s-1DP\s+1 executes \s-1IOP\s+1 diagnostics,
reads a diagnostic tape
and then establishes an interface
to the \s-1MTTYPC\s+1 in order to
accept diagnostic commands.
.TP
62 \s-1DP\s+1\-\s-1INIT\s+1
Initializes the \s-1DP\s+1.
.TP
63 \s-1CFT\s+1\-\s-1INIT\s+1
Currently not implemented.
.TP
64 \s-1PRM\s+1\-\s-1DUMP\s+1
Currently not implemented.
.TP
65 \s-1CLR\s+1\-\s-1EAI\s+1
Resets all functions on the \s-1EAI\s+1 display
and zeroes the 3\s-1BPRM\s+1 and \s-1DPPRM\s+1 fields.
All \s-1SET\s+1/\s-1CLR\s+1 functions are reset to \s-1CLR\s+1.
.PP
Commands \fB70\fP\-\fB73\fP and \fB76\fP\-\fB93\fP set or clear options
to be used during and after the next initialization,
disk boot,
disk dump
or load from tape.
They cause no immediate action.
Commands \fB74\fP and \fB75\fP affect only the \s-1EAI\s+1 display
and not the \s-1UNIX\s+1 System software.
In each pair below,
the even number sets the option
and is displayed as
.BR \s-1SET\s+1 ,
and the odd number clears the option
and is displayed as
.BR \s-1CLR\s+1 .
The description below represents
the option that is selected when
the even command of the pair is entered.
Unless explicitly noted otherwise,
the corresponding odd command
undoes this option.
.TP \w'64\ PRM\-DUMP\ \ 'u
70\-71 \s-1SEC\s+1\-\s-1DISK\s+1
Causes moving head disk 1 on disk file controller 0
to be used as the boot device
or the disk to be loaded by \s-1LDTAPE\s+1 (see \fB98\fP below).
Clearing this option causes moving head disk 0
on disk file controller 0 to be used.
.TP
72\-73 \s-1INH\s+1\-\s-1TIMER\s+1
Inhibits automatic recovery when
a sanity timeout occurs.
.TP
74\-75 \s-1PRM\s+1\-\s-1TRAP\s+1
Freezes the next failing \s-1PRM\s+1
on the \s-1EAI\s+1 display.
.TP
76\-77 \s-1PARAMETER\s+1
Sets a parameter which is used to determine the action taken by \s-1INIT\s+1
(see \fB95\fP below) or by automatic recovery after a failure.
When the \fB76\fP command is entered,
the user is prompted for a single character parameter value
on the command entry line in the \s-1EAI\s+1 display.
After the character is entered,
it will be displayed next to the word \s-1PARAMETER\s+1
on the display.
Possible values for the parameter are:
.RS
.TP \w'H\ \ 'u
.B h
causes the system to idle.
.TP
.B H
causes the system to halt.
The system will reboot if the sanity timer is not inhibited.
.TP
.B d
causes the system to dump a memory image to disk and then reboot.
.TP
.B D
causes the system to dump a memory image to disk and then idle.
.TP
.B r
causes the system to reboot.
.RE
.TP \w'64\ PRM\-DUMP\ \ 'u
\&
If the parameter is cleared
or if it is set to a value not mentioned above,
then the default action will be reboot the processor.
.TP
80\-81 \s-1PROMPT\s+1\-\s-1UNIX\s+1
If set,
this causes the disk bootstrap program
to prompt the user for the name of the program
to be booted.
If clear,
.B /unix
will be chosen as the program to be booted.
See
.IR 3B20boot (8).
.TP
82\-83 \s-1BACKUP\s+1\-\s-1ROOT\s+1
Causes the disk bootstrap program
to find the program to be booted
on the backup root file system.
If clear,
the normal root file system is used
(see
.IR dsk (7)).
.TP
84\-85 \s-1MIN\s+1\-\s-1CONFIG\s+1
Causes the \s-1UNIX\s+1 System to bring only
the boot device,
the system console
and a tape drive into service
and only the first megabyte of main memory
will be used.
.TP
86\-87 \s-1INH\s+1\-\s-1HDW\s+1\-\s-1CHK\s+1
Causes the \s-1UNIX\s+1 System to disable
refresh and correctable main store parity error detection.
.TP
88\-89 \s-1INH\s+1\-\s-1SFT\s+1\-\s-1CHK\s+1
Currently unused.
.TP
90\-91 \s-1INH\s+1\-\s-1ERR\s+1\-\s-1INT\s+1
Currently unused.
.TP
92\-93 \s-1INH\s+1\-\s-1CACHE\s+1
Disables the use of cache memory.
.PP
Commands \fB95\fP\-\fB99\fP cause immediate action
which is affected by options \fB70\fP\-\fB73\fP
and \fB76\fP\-\fB93\fP above.
If these commands fail,
they will output \s-1PRM\s+1s in the 3\s-1BPRM\s+1 field of the display.
An explanation of failure \s-1PRM\s+1s
is found in
.IR prm (8).
.TP \w'64\ PRM\-DUMP\ \ 'u
95 \s-1INIT\s+1
Causes different action depending on the parameter value
set by command \fB76\fP.
.TP
96 \s-1BOOT\s+1
Causes a disk bootstrap.
See
.IR 3B20boot (8).
.TP
97 \s-1DUMP\s+1
Causes a memory image of the operating system to be dumped to disk
followed by a disk bootstrap.
.TP
98 \s-1LDTAPE\s+1
Causes a disk to be loaded from tape.
See
.IR ldtape (8).
.TP
99 \s-1HALT\s+1
Causes the \s-1UNIX\s+1 System to idle.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
dsk(7),
3B20boot(8),
ldtape(8),
prm(8).
.br
.IR "\s-1UNIX\s+1 System Operator's Guide" .
.\"	@(#)eai.8	5.2 of 5/18/82
