.tr ~ 
.TH RJE 8
.SH NAME
rje \- \s-1RJE\s+1 (Remote Job Entry) to \s-1IBM\s+1
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/rje/rjeinit
.br
.B /usr/rje/rjehalt
.SH DESCRIPTION
.SM RJE
is the communal name for a collection of programs and a file
organization that allows a \s-1UNIX\s0 System,
equipped with the appropriate hardware and associated
Virtual Protocol Machine (\s-1VPM\s0)
software,
to communicate with \s-1IBM\s0's Job Entry Subsystems
by mimicking an \s-1IBM\s0 360 remote multileaving work station.
.SS Implementation.
.PP
.SM RJE
is initiated by the command
.I rjeinit\^
and is terminated gracefully by the command
.IR rjehalt .
While active,
.SM RJE
runs in the background and
requires no human supervision.
It quietly transmits, to the \s-1IBM\s0 system, jobs that have been queued by the
.IR send (1C)
command,
and operator requests that have been entered by the
.IR rjestat (1C)
command.
It receives, from the \s-1IBM\s0 system, print and punch data sets and
message output.
It enters the data sets into the proper \s-1UNIX\s0 System directory
and notifies the appropriate user of their arrival.
It scans the message output to maintain a record on
each of its jobs.
It also makes these messages available
for public inspection,
so that
.IR rjestat (1C),
in particular,
may extract responses.
.PP
Unless otherwise specified, all files and commands described below
reside in directory
.B /usr/rje
(first exceptions:
.I send\^
and
.IR rjestat ).
.PP
There are two sources of
data to be transmitted by
.SM RJE
from the \s-1UNIX\s0 System
to an \s-1IBM\s0 System/370.
In both cases, the data is organized as files in
the
.B /usr/rje/squeue
directory.
The first are files named
.B co\(**
which are created by the enquiry command
.IR rjestat (1C).
The second source, containing the bulk of the
data, are files named
.B rd\(**
or
.B sq\(**
which have been created by
.I send\^
and queued by the program
.IR rjeqer .
On completion of processing
.I send\^
invokes
.IR rjeqer .
.I Rjeqer\^
and
.I rjestat\^
inform the program
.I rjexmit\^
that a file has been queued via the file
.BR joblog .
Upon successful transmission of the data to the
.SM IBM
machine,
.I rjexmit\^
removes the queued file.
As files are transmitted and received, the program
.I rjedisp\^
writes an entry containing the date, time, file name, logname, and number of
records in the file
.BR acctlog ,
if it exists.
This file can be used for local logging or accounting information,
but is not used elsewhere by
.SM RJE.
The use of this information is up to the
.SM RJE
administrator.
.PP
Each time
.I rjeinit\^
is invoked, the
.B joblog
file is truncated and recreated from the contents of the
.B /usr/rje/squeue
directory.
During this time,
.I rjeinit\^
prevents simultaneous updating of the
.B joblog
file.
.PP
Output from the \s-1IBM\s0 system is
classified as either a print data set, a punch data set,
or message output.
Print output is converted to an \s-1ASCII\s0 text file,
with standard tabs.
Form feeds are suppressed, but the last line of each page
is distinguished by the presence of an extraneous
trailing space.
Punch output is converted to
.IR pnch (4)
format.
This classification and
both conversions
occur as
the output is received.
Files are
moved or copied
into the appropriate user's directory and assigned the name
.B prnt\(**
or
.BR pnch\(** ,
respectively,
or
placed into user directories under user-specified names,
or used as input to
programs to be automatically executed,
as specified by the user.
This process is driven by the ``usr=...'' specification.
.SM RJE
retains ownership of these files and permits read-only access
to them.
Message output is digested by
.SM RJE
immediately and is not retained.
.PP
A record is maintained for each job that passes through
.SM RJE.
Identifying information is extracted contextually
from files transmitted to and received from the \s-1IBM\s0 system.
This information is stored and used by the
.I rjedisp\^
program for \s-1IBM\s0 job acknowledgements and delivery of output files.
.PP
The
\s-1IBM\s0 system automatically returns
an acknowledgement message for each job it receives.
Other status messages are returned in response to enquiries
entered by users.
All messages received by
.SM RJE
are appended to the
.B resp
file.
The
.B resp
file is automatically truncated when it reaches 70,000 bytes.
Each enquiry is preceded and followed by an identification card image
of the form ``$\s-1UX\s+1<\fIprocess id\fP>''.
The
\s-1IBM\s0 system will echo this back
as an illegal command.
The appearance of process ids in the response stream
permits responses to be passed on to the proper users.
.PP
While it is active,
.SM RJE
occupies at least the three process slots that are appropriated by
.IR rjeinit .
These slots are used to run
.IR rjexmit ,
the transmitter,
.IR rjerecv ,
the receiver,
and
.IR rjedisp ,
the dispatcher.
These three processes are connected by pipes.
The function of each is as follows:
.TP
.I rjexmit\^
Cycles repetitively, looking for data to
transmit to the \s-1IBM\s0 system.
After transmission,
.I rjexmit\^
passes an event notice to
.IR rjedisp .
If
.I rjexmit\^
encounters a
.B stop
file, (created by
.IR rjehalt ),
it exits normally.
In the case of error termination,
.I rjexmit\^
reboots \s-1RJE\s0 by executing
.IR rjeinit .
.TP
.I rjerecv\^
Cycles repetitively, looking for data returning
from the \s-1IBM\s0 machine.
Upon receipt of data,
.I rjerecv\^
notifies either
.I rjexmit\^
or
.I rjedisp\^
of the event (transfer information is sometimes passed to
.IR rjexmit ).
.I Rjerecv\^
exits normally at the first appropriate moment when it encounters
the file
.BR stop ,
or exits reluctantly when it encounters a run of errors.
.TP
.I rjedisp\^
Follows up event notices by directing output files,
updating records, and notifying users.
.I Rjedisp\^
references the system files
.B /etc/passwd
and
.B /etc/utmp
to correlate user names, numeric ids, and terminals.
Termination of
.I rjerecv\^
causes
.I rjedisp\^
to exit also.
.PP
.I Rjeinit\^
has the capability of \fIdialing\fP any remote \s-1IBM\s0 system
with the proper hardware and software configuration.
.PP
Most
.SM RJE
files and directories are protected
from unauthorized tampering.
The exception is the
.B spool
directory.
It is used by
.IR send (1C)
to create temporary files in the correct file system.
.I Rjeqer\^
and
.IR rjestat (1C),
the user's interfaces to
.SM RJE,
operate in \fIsetuid\fP mode to contribute the necessary permission modes.
.SS Administration.
.PP
Some minimal oversight of each
.SM RJE
subsystem is required.
The
.SM RJE
mailbox should be inspected and cleaned out periodically.
The
.B job
directory should also be checked.
The only files placed there are output files whose
destination file systems are out of space.
Users should be given a short period of time (say, a day or two),
and then these files should be removed.
.PP
The configuration table
.B /usr/rje/lines
is accessed by all components of \s-1RJE\s0.
Each line of the table (maximum of 8) defines an \s-1RJE\s0 connection.
Its seven columns may be labeled
.IR host ,
.IR system ,
.IR directory ,
.IR prefix ,
.IR device ,
.I peripherals\^
and
.IR parameters .
These columns are described as follows:
.TP
.B "host~~~~~"
The name of a remote \s-1IBM\s0 computer (e.g.,
.B A
.B B
.BR C ).
This string can be up to 5 characters.
.TP
.B "system~~~"
The name of a \s-1UNIX\s0 system.
This name should be the same as the
system name from
.IR uname (1).
.TP
.B directory
This is the directory name of the servicing \s-1RJE\s0 subsystem
(e.g.,
.BR /usr/rje1 ).
.TP
.B "prefix~~~"
This is the string prefixed (redundantly) to several crucial
files and programs in
.B directory
(e.g.,
.BR rje1 ,
.BR rje2 ,
.BR rje3 ).
.TP
.B "device~~~"
This is the name of the controlling \s-1VPM\s0 device, with
.B /dev/
excised.
.TP
.B peripherals
This field contains information on the logical devices (readers,
printers, punches) used by \s-1RJE\s0.
Each subfield is separated by
.BR : ,
and is described as follows:
.br
.sp
(1) Number of logical readers.
.br
(2) Number of logical printers.
.br
(3) Number of logical punches.
.sp
Note: the number of peripherals specified for an \s-1RJE\s0 subsystem
.B must
agree with the number of peripherals which have been described
on the remote machine for that line.
.TP
.B parameters
This field contains information on the type of connection to make.
Each subfield is separated by
.BR : .
Any or all fields may be omitted; however, the fields are positional.
All but trailing delimiters must be present.
For example, in
.br
.ce 1
1200:512:::9-555-1212
.br
subfields 3 and 4 are missing, but the delimiters are present.
Each subfield is defined as follows:
.RS 7
.TP
.RB (1) ~space
This subfield specifies
the amount of space
.RI ( \s-1S\s+1 )
in blocks that \s-1RJE\s0 tries to maintain on
file systems it touches.
The default is 0 blocks.
.I Send\^
will not submit jobs and
.I rjeinit\^
issues a warning when less than
.RI 1.5 \s-1S\s+1
blocks are available;
.I rjerecv\^
stops accepting output from the host when the capacity
falls to
.I \s-1S\s+1\^
blocks;
.SM RJE
becomes dormant, until conditions improve.
If the space on the file system specified by the user
on the ``usr='' card would be depleted to a point
below
.IR \s-1S\s+1 ,
the
file will be put in the
.B job
subdirectory
of the connection's home directory,
rather than in the place that the user requested.
.TP
.RB (2) ~size
This subfield specifies the size in blocks of the largest
file that can be accepted from the host without
truncation taking place.
The default is no truncation.
.TP
.RB (3) ~badjobs
This subfield specifies what to do with undeliverable returning
jobs.
If an output file is undeliverable for any reason other than file system space limitations (e.g., missing or
invalid ``usr='' card)
and this subfield contains the letter
\fBy\fP,
the output will be retained in the
.B job
subdirectory of the
home directory,
and login
.B rje
is notified.
If this subfield contains an
.B n
or has any other value,
undeliverable output will be discarded.
The default is \fBn\fP.
.TP
.RB (4) ~console
This subfield specifies the status of the
interactive status terminal for this line.
If the subfield contains an \fBi\fP,
all console status facilities are inhibited
(e.g.,
.IR rjestat (1C)
will not behave like a status terminal).
In all cases, the normal non-interactive uses of
.IR rjestat (1C)
will
continue to function.
The default is \fBy\fP.
.TP
.RB (5) ~dial-up
This subfield contains a telephone number to be used to call a host machine.
The telephone number may contain the digits 0 thru 9 and the
character
.B \-
which denotes a pause.
If the telephone number is not present, no dialing is attempted and
a leased line is assumed.
.RE
Sign-on is controlled by the existence of a
.B signon
file in the
home directory.
If this file is present, its contents are sent as
a sign-on message to the host system.
If this file does not exist, a blank card is sent.
Sign-off is controlled in the same way, except that the
.B signoff
file
is sent by
.I rjehalt\^
if it exists.
If the
.B signoff
file does not exist, a
.RB `` /\(**signoff ''
card is sent.
These files should be \s-1ASCII\s0 text and no more than 80 characters.
.PP
.IR Send (1C)
and
.IR rjestat (1C)
select an available connection by indexing on the
.B host
field
of the configuration table.
.SM RJE
programs index on the
.B prefix
field.
A subordinate directory,
.BR sque ,
exists in
.B /usr/rje
for use by
.I rjedisp\^
and
.I shqer\^
programs.
This directory holds those output files that
have been designated as standard input to some executable
file.
This designation is done via the ``usr=\f3...\fP'' specification.
.I Rjedisp\^
places the output files here and updates the file
.B log
to specify the order of execution, arguments to be passed, etc.
.I Shqer\^
executes the appropriate files.
.PP
All \s-1RJE\s0 programs are shared text; therefore,
if more than one \s-1RJE\s0 is to be run on a given
\s-1UNIX\s0 system,
simply link
(via
.IR ln )
\s-1RJE2\s0
program names to \s-1RJE\s0 names in
\fB/usr\fP.
.ne 10
.SH "SEE ALSO"
cp(1),
rjestat(1C),
send(1C),
pnch(4),
un53(7),
vpm(7),
mk(8).
.br
.IR "\s-1UNIX\s+1 System User's Guide" .
.br
\s-1UNIX\s+1 System Remote Job Entry Administrator's Guide
in the
.IR "\s-1UNIX\s+1 System Administrator's Guide" .
.br
Setting up the \s-1UNIX\s+1 System in the
.IR "\s-1UNIX\s+1 System Administrator's Guide" .
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.I Rjeinit\^
provides brief error messages describing obstacles
encountered while bringing up
.SM RJE.
They can best be understood in the context of the \s-1RJE\s0 source code.
The most frequently occurring one is ``cannot open /dev/vpm?''.
This may occur if the \s-1VPM\s0 script has not been started,
or if another process already has the \s-1VPM\s0 device open.
.PP
Once
.SM RJE
has been started, users should assist in monitoring its performance,
and should notify operations personnel
of any perceived need for remedial action.
.IR Rjestat (1C)
will aid in diagnosing the current state of \s-1RJE\s0.
It can detect, with some reliability,
when the far end of the communications line has gone dead,
and will report in this case that the host computer
is not responding to \s-1RJE\s0.
.tr ~~
.\"	@(#)rje.8	5.2 of 5/18/82
