.TH TROUBLE 8
.SH NAME
trouble \- trouble reporting system
.SH DESCRIPTION
The first line of the
.B /usr/lib/trouble/trsh
file must have the correct company code for your site;
a local modification is necessary.
The
.I trouble\^
command will not run until this change is made.
.P
The official company codes are as follows:
.PP
.RS
.PD 0
.TP 6
at
AT&T
.TP
bl
Bell Labs
.TP
cb
Cincinnati Bell
.TP
cd
C&P of Washington
.TP
cm
C&P of Maryland
.TP
cv
C&P of Virginia
.TP
cw
C&P of West Virginia
.TP
lb
Illinois Bell
.TP
ll
AT&T Long Lines
.TP
mb
Michigan Bell
.TP
ms
Mountain States Telephone
.TP
nb
Indiana Bell
.TP
ne
New England Telephone
.TP
nj
New Jersey Bell
.TP
nv
Nevada Bell
.TP
nw
Northwestern Bell
.TP
ny
New York Telephone
.TP
ob
Ohio Bell
.TP
pa
Bell of Pennsylvania
.TP
pn
Pacific Northwest Bell
.TP
pt
Pacific Telephone & Telegraph
.TP
sb
Southern Bell
.TP
sc
South Central Bell
.TP
sn
Southern New England Telephone
.TP
sw
Southwestern Bell
.TP
we
Western Electric
.TP
wt
Wisconsin Telephone
.RE
.PD
.PP
All trouble reports are archived in
.BR /usr/lib/trouble/tr.a ;
this file should be checked weekly to ensure that it does not get too large.
If it gets too large, it should be moved to
.BR /usr/lib/trouble/otr.a ;
after a week or so, the old archive can be thrown away.
.PP
The
.BR trouble
login is intended to be used only for administering the
.I trouble
system.
If
.I uucp
cannot deliver a trouble report,
.IR mail (1)
will be returned to the
.BR trouble
login.
Any trouble reports not delivered may be retransmitted by using the
.I trxmit
command with the trouble report numbers as
arguments.
(Hence, the reason for saving the archive for a while.)
.P
The
.B /usr/lib/trouble/names
file can be expanded to include the names of additional people at your site.
.PP
The per-line format of this file is as follows:
.PP
.RS
.PD 0
letter-\s-1ID\s+1s(3-6) location  phone  name(with appropriate blanks)
.RE
.PD
.PP
The above fields are separated by blanks and/or tabs.
When the \fIletter-\s-1ID\s+1\fP is identified, the \fIname\fP, \fIlocation\fP and \fIphone\fP will
be taken from this file (provided they have legal formats).
Note that the
.I name
field is the only one that can have blanks.
.PD
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP "\w'/usr/lib/trouble/instruct  'u"
/usr/lib/trouble/tr.a
archived trouble reports
.TP
/usr/lib/trouble/instruct
instructions
.TP
/usr/lib/trouble/trsh
trouble report shell
.TP
/usr/lib/trouble/trxmit
re-transmission shell
.TP
/usr/lib/trouble/names
letter \s-1ID\s+1 data base
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
trouble(1),
uucp(1C).
.\"	@(#)trouble.8	5.2 of 5/18/82
