.\"%W%
.TH PCLDAEMON 1C "DEC only"
.SH NAME
pcldaemon \- \s-1PCL\s+1 link monitor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/lib/pcldaemon
[ pcl_file ... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Pcldaemon\^
monitors the
.IR pcl (7)
control channel,
servicing requests as they arrive.
Requests are transmitted via
.IR net (1C),
and passed to a user's default shell
executing in the user's home directory.
Before execution starts,
the user's environment is extracted from the \fB.profile\fR
file, if any.
.P
.I Pcldaemon
will ignore requests from remote super-users.
(This is the default, but is a compile-time option).
.P
The optional arguments are the names of
.I pcl
special files which will be opened and then immediately closed.
It is advisable to invoke
.I pcldaemon
with the names of all
.I pcl
files to close any channels
that might be open at the remote end
after a local system crash.
.P
The system names in
.B /dev/pcl
must be some subset of the systems'
.BR nodenames .
.I Pcldaemon
will attempt first to use the remote system's full
.I  nodename
to open a channel for a request.
If unsuccessful, it will then try subsequent names by truncating the
.I  nodename 
from the left.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP "\w'/dev/pcl/*[0-7]  'u"
/dev/pcl/\fI*\fP[0-7]
\s-1PCL\s+1 channel interfaces for system
.BR * .
.TP
/dev/pcl/ctrl
\s-1PCL\s+1 control channel.
.TP
/usr/adm/pcllog
activity log.
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
net(1C),
pcl(7).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP
.I cannot open pcl control channel
Another
.I pcldaemon\^
is running.
.TP
.I cannot fork
Try again.
.TP
.I cannot open/create log file
Check directories leading to activity log file.
.SH WARNINGS
Running
.I pcldaemon\^
may present security hazards.
Login names should be unique across systems.
