.TH CORE 4
.SH NAME
core \- format of core image file
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.SM UNIX
system writes out a core image of a terminated
process when any of various errors occur.
See
.IR signal (2)
for the list of reasons;
the most common are memory violations, illegal
instructions, bus errors, and user-generated
quit signals.
The core image is called
.B core
and is written in the process's
working directory (provided it can be;
normal access controls apply).
A process with an effective user
.SM ID
different from the real user
.SM ID
will not produce a core image.
.PP
The first section of the core image
is a copy of the system's per-user
data for the process, including the registers
as they were at the time of the fault.
The size of this section depends on the parameter
.IR usize ,
which is defined in
.BR /usr/include/sys/param.h .
The
remainder represents the actual contents of
the user's core area when the core image
was written.
If the text segment is read-only and shared,
or separated from data space, it is not dumped.
.PP
The format of the
information in the first section
is described by
the
.I user\^
structure of the system,
defined in
.BR /usr/include/sys/user.h .
The important stuff not detailed therein is the locations of the registers,
which are outlined in
.BR /usr/include/sys/reg.h .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
setuid(2), signal(2).
.br
crash(1M) in the
\f2\s-1UNIX\s+1 System V Administrator Reference Manual\fR.
.br
sdb(1) in the
\f2\s-1UNIX\s+1 System V User Reference Manual\fR.
.br
.\"	%W% of %G%
