.TH INITTAB 4
.SH NAME
inittab \- script for the init process
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I inittab
file supplies the script to 
.IR init 's
role as a general process dispatcher. The process 
that constitutes the majority of 
.IR init 's
process dispatching activities is the line process
.B /etc/getty
that initiates individual terminal lines.
Other processes typically dispatched by
.I init
are daemons and the
shell.
.PP
The \fIinittab\fP file is composed of entries that are position dependent and
have the following format:
.PP
.RS
id:rstate:action:process
.RE
.PP
Each entry is delimited by a newline, however, a
backslash (\^\e\^) preceding a newline indicates
a continuation of the entry.  Up to 512 characters per entry
are permitted.  Comments may be inserted
in the
.I process
field using the
.IR sh (1)
convention for comments.
Comments for lines that spawn
.IR getty s
are displayed by the
.IR who (1)
command.  It is expected that they will contain some information
about the line such as the location.
There are no
limits (other than maximum entry size) imposed on the number of entries
within the
.I inittab
file.
The entry fields are:
.PP
.TP \w'process\ \ \ 'u
.I id
This is one or two characters
used to uniquely identify an entry.
.TP
.I rstate
This defines the
.IR run-level
in which this entry is to be
processed.  
\fIRun-levels\fP
effectively correspond to a configuration of processes
in the system.
That is, each process spawned by 
.I init
is assigned a \fIrun-level\fP or \fIrun-levels\fP in which it is allowed
to exist.
The 
.IR run-levels
are represented by 
a number ranging from
.B 0
through
.BR 6 .
As an example, if 
the system
is in 
.IR run-level
.BR 1 ,
only those entries having a
.B 1
in the
.IR rstate
field will be processed. 
When
.I init
is requested to change
.IR run-levels,
all processes
which do not have
an entry in the
.I rstate
field for the target 
.IR run-level
will be sent the warning signal
.RB ( \s-1SIGTERM\s+1 )
and allowed a 20-second grace period before being forcibly terminated
by a kill signal
.RB ( \s-1SIGKILL\s+1 ).
The 
.I rstate
field can define multiple 
.I run-levels
for a process
by selecting 
more than one \fIrun-level\fP in any combination from \fB0\-6\fP.
If no
.I run-level
is specified,
then the process is assumed to be valid at
all
.I run-levels
.BR 0\-6 .
There are three other values, 
.BR a ,
.B b
and
.BR c ,
which can appear in the
.I rstate
field,
even though they are not true 
.IR run-levels .
Entries which have these characters in the
.I rstate
field are processed only when the 
.I telinit
[see
.IR init (1M)]
process requests them to be run (regardless of the
current
.I run-level
of the system).
They differ from 
.I run-levels
in that  
.I init
can never enter
.I run-level 
.BR a ,
.B b
or
.BR c .
Also, a request for the execution of any of these processes
does not change the current 
.IR run-level .
Furthermore, a process started by an
.BR a ,
.B b
or
.B c
command is not killed when
.I init
changes levels.  They are only killed if their line in
.B /etc/inittab
is marked \fBoff\fP in the
.I action
field, their line is deleted entirely from
.BR /etc/inittab ,
or
.I init
goes into the
.SM
.I SINGLE USER
state.
.TP
.I action
Key words in this field tell
.I init
how to treat the process specified in the
.I process
field.
The actions recognized by 
.I init
are
as follows:
.PP
.RS \w'process\ \ \ 'u
.TP \w'\fBinitdefault\fP\ \ \ 'u
.B respawn
If the process does not exist then start the
process, do not wait for its termination (continue
scanning the 
.I inittab 
file), and when it dies restart the process.
If the process currently exists then do nothing and continue scanning the
.I inittab
file.
.TP
.B wait
Upon
.IR  init 's
entering the \fIrun-level\fP that matches the entry's
.IR rstate ,
start the process and wait for its termination.
All subsequent reads of the
.I inittab
file while 
.I init
is in the same \fIrun-level\fP will cause 
.I init
to ignore this entry.
.TP
.B once
Upon
.IR init 's
entering a \fIrun-level\fP that matches the entry's
.IR rstate ,
start the process, do not wait
for its termination.  When it dies, do not restart the process.
If upon entering a new \fIrun-level\fP,
where the process is still running from a
previous \fIrun-level\fP change, the program will not be restarted.
.TP
.B boot
The entry is to be processed only at
.IR init 's
boot-time read of the 
.I inittab
file.  
.I Init
is to start the process, not wait for its termination;
and when it dies, not restart the process.  In order for
this instruction to be meaningful, the
.I rstate
should be the default or it must
match
.IR init 's
\fIrun-level\fP at boot time.
This action is useful for an initialization function following
a hardware reboot of the system.
.TP
.B bootwait
The entry is to be processed only at
.IR init 's
boot-time read of the
.I inittab
file.
.I Init
is to start the process, wait for its termination and,
when it dies, not restart
the process.  
.TP
.B powerfail
Execute the process associated with this entry only when
.I init
receives a
power fail signal
.RB [ \s-1SIGPWR\s+1
see
.IR signal (2)].
.TP
.B powerwait
Execute the process associated with this entry only when
.I init
receives a
power fail signal
.RB ( \s-1SIGPWR\s+1 )
and wait until it
terminates before continuing any processing of
.IR inittab .
.TP
.B off
If the process associated with this entry is currently
running, send the warning signal
.RB ( \s-1SIGTERM\s+1 )
and wait 20 seconds before forcibly terminating the process via the kill
signal
.RB ( \s-1SIGKILL\s+1 ).
If the process
is nonexistent, ignore the entry.
.TP
.B ondemand
This instruction is really a synonym for the
.B respawn
action.  It is functionally identical to
.B respawn
but is given a different keyword in
order to divorce its association
with \fIrun-levels\fP.
This is used only with the 
.BR a ,
.B b
or
.B c
values
described in the
.I rstate
field. 
.TP
.B initdefault
An entry with this
.I action
is only scanned when
.I init
initially invoked.
.I Init
uses this entry, if it exists, to determine which
.I run-level
to enter initially.  It does this by taking the highest
\fIrun-level\fP specified in the
.B rstate
field and using that as its initial state. 
If the
.I rstate
field is empty, this is interpreted as
.B 0123456
and so
.I init
will enter
.I run-level
.BR 6 .
Also, the
.B initdefault
entry cannot specify that
.I init
start in the
.SM
.I SINGLE USER
state.
Additionally, if
.I init
does not find an
.B initdefault
entry in
.BR /etc/inittab ,
then it will request an initial
.I run-level
from the user at reboot time.
.TP
.B sysinit
Entries of this type are executed before
.I init
tries to access the console.
It is expected that this entry will be only used
to initialize devices on which
.I init
might try to ask the \fIrun-level\fP question.
These entries are executed and waited for before continuing.
.RE
.bp
.TP \w'process\ \ \ 'u
.I process
This is a
.I sh
command to be executed.  The entire
.B process
field is prefixed with
.I exec
and passed to a forked
.I sh
as
.BI "sh \-c \(fmexec" " command" \(fm\fR.\fP
For this reason, any legal
.I sh
syntax can appear in the
.I process
field.  Comments can be inserted with the
.BI "; #" comment
syntax.
.SH FILES
/etc/inittab
.SH "SEE ALSO"
exec(2), open(2), signal(2).
.br
getty(1M),
init(1M) in the
.IR "\s-1UNIX\s+1 System V Administrator Reference Manual" .
.br
sh(1),
who(1) in the
\f2\s-1UNIX\s+1 System V User Reference Manual\fR.
.br
.\"	%W% of %G%
