.TH MASTER 4 "NSC only"
.SH NAME
master \- master device information table
.SH DESCRIPTION
This file is used by the
.IR config (1M)
program to obtain device information that enables
it to generate the
configuration
files.
The file consists of 3 parts, each separated by a line with
a dollar sign
.RB ( $ )
in column 1.
Part 1 contains device information; part 2 contains
names
of devices that have aliases;
part 3 contains tunable parameter information.
Any line with an asterisk
.RB ( \(** )
in column 1 is treated as a comment.
.PP
Part 1 contains lines consisting of at least 10 fields
and at most 11 fields,
with the fields delimited by tabs and/or blanks:
.PP
.RS
.PD 0
.TP "\w'Field 11:  'u"
Field 1:
device name (8 chars. maximum).
.TP
Field 2:
interrupt vector size (decimal).
.TP
Field 3:
device mask (octal)\-each ``on'' bit indicates that
the handler exists:
.RS
.RS
000200	tty header exists
.br
000100  initialization handler
.br
000040  power-failure handler
.br
000020  open handler
.br
000010  close handler
.br
000004  read handler
.br
000002  write handler
.br
000001  ioctl handler.
.RE
.RE
.TP
Field 4:
device type indicator (octal):
.RS
.RS
000020  allow only one of these devices
.br
000010  suppress count field in the
.B conf.c
file
.br
000004  required device
.br
000002  block device
.br
000001  character device
.RE
.RE
.TP
Field 5:
handler prefix (4 chars. maximum).
.TP
Field 6:
device address size (decimal).
.TP
Field 7:
major device number for block-type device.
.TP
Field 8:
major device number for character-type device.
.TP
Field 9:
maximum number of devices per controller (decimal).
.TP
Field 10:
maximum bus request level (4 through 7).
.TP
Field 11:
optional configuration table structure declaration
(8 chars. maximum).
.RE
.PD
.PP
Part 2 contains lines with 2 fields each:
.PP
.RS
.PD 0
.TP "\w'Fields 11-13:  'u"
Field 1:
alias name of device (8 chars. maximum).
.TP
Field 2:
reference name of device (8 chars. maximum;
specified in part 1).
.RE
.PD
.PP
Part 3 contains lines with 2 or 3 fields each:
.PP
.RS
.PD 0
.TP "\w'Fields 11-13:  'u"
Field 1:
parameter name (as it appears in description file; 20 chars. maximum)
.TP
Field 2:
parameter name (as it appears in the
.B conf.c
file; 20 chars. maximum)
.TP
Field 3:
default parameter value (20 chars. maximum; parameter specification
is required if
this field is omitted)
.RE
.br
.ne 3v
.PD
.PP
Devices that are not interrupt-driven
have an interrupt vector size of zero.
.SH SEE ALSO
config(1M).
.\"	@(#)master.dec.4	5.2 of 5/18/82
