.TH PASSWD 4
.SH NAME
passwd \- password file
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Passwd\^
contains for each user the
following information:
.RS
.PP
login name
.br
encrypted password
.br
numerical user
.SM ID
.br
numerical group
.SM ID
.br
.SM GCOS
job number, box number, optional
.SM GCOS
user
.SM ID
.br
initial working directory
.br
program to use as Shell
.RE
.PP
This is an \s-1ASCII\s0 file.
Each field within each user's entry
is separated from the next by a colon.
The \s-1GCOS\s0 field is used only when communicating with that
system, and in other installations can contain
any desired information.
Each user is separated from the next by a new-line.
If the password field is null, no password is demanded;
if the Shell field is null, the Shell itself
is used.
.PP
This file resides in directory
.BR /etc .
Because of the encrypted
passwords, it can and does have general read
permission and can be used, for example,
to map numerical user \s-1ID\s0s to names.
.PP
The encrypted password consists of 13 characters chosen from a 64-character 
alphabet
.RB ( . ", " / ,
.BR 0\-9 ", " A\-Z ", " a\-z ),
except when the password is null,
in which case the encrypted
password is also null. 
Password aging is effected for a particular user
if his encrypted password in the password file is followed by a comma and a non-null string
of characters from the above alphabet.
(Such a string must be introduced in
the first instance by the super-user.)
.PP
The first character of the age,
.IR M " say,"
denotes the maximum number of weeks for which a password is valid.
A user who attempts to login after his password has expired will be
forced to supply a new one.
The next character,
.IR m " say,"
denotes the minimum period in weeks which
must expire before the password may be changed.
The remaining characters
define the week (counted from the beginning of 1970) when the password was
last changed.
(A null string is equivalent to zero.)
\fIM\fR and \fIm\fR have numerical values in the range 0\-63
that correspond to the 64-character alphabet shown above
(i.e.,
.B /
= 1 week;
.B z
= 63 weeks).
If
.IR "m " = " M " "= 0"
(derived from
the string
.B .
or
.BR .. )
the user will be forced to change his password the
next time he logs in (and the ``age'' will disappear from his entry in the password file).
If
.IR "m " > " M"
(signified, e.g., by the string
.BR ./ )
only the super-user
will be able to change the password.
.SH FILES
/etc/passwd
.SH "SEE ALSO"
a64l(3C), crypt(3C), getpwent(3C), group(4).
.br
login(1), passwd(1) in the
\f2\s-1UNIX\s+1 System V User Reference Manual\fR.
.\"	%W% of %G%
