.TH RELOC 4
.SH NAME
reloc \- relocation information for a common object file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B
#include  <reloc.h>
.SH DESCRIPTION
Object files have one relocation entry for each
relocatable reference in the text or data.
If relocation information is present, it will
be in the following format.
.PP
.if t .RS
.ta \w'#define\ \ 'u +\w'R_DIR32S\ \ 'u +\w'r_symndx\ ;\ \ 'u
.nf
.lg 0
struct	reloc
{
	long	r_vaddr ;	/\(** (virtual) address of reference \(*\(**/
	long	r_symndx ;	/\(** index into symbol table \(*\(**/
	short	r_type ;	/\(** relocation type \(*\(**/
} ;

/\(**
 *	The r_type field is partitioned into four subfields
 *	given by the following bit mask definitions:
 \(**/

#define	\s-1R_ADDRTYPE\s+1	0x000f
#define	  \s-1R_NOTHING\s+1	  0x0000
#define	  \s-1R_ADDRESS\s+1	  0x0001
#define	  \s-1R_LINKENTRY\s+1	  0x0002
#define	\s-1R_RELTO\s+1		0x00f0
#define	  \s-1R_ABS\s+1		  0x0000
#define	  \s-1R_PCREL\s+1		  0x0010
#define	  \s-1R_SBREL\s+1		  0x0020
#define	\s-1R_FORMAT\s+1		0x0f00
#define	  \s-1R_NUMBER\s+1	  0x0000
#define	  \s-1R_DISPL\s+1		  0x0100
#define	  \s-1R_PROCDES\s+1	  0x0200
#define	  \s-1R_IMMED\s+1		  0x0300
#define	\s-1R_SIZESP\s+1		0xf000
#define	  \s-1R_S_08\s+1		  0x0000
#define	  \s-1R_S_16\s+1		  0x1000
#define	  \s-1R_S_32\s+1		  0x2000

.fi
.lg
.if t .RE
.PP
As the link editor reads each input section
and performs relocation, the relocation entries are read. They
direct how references found within the input section are treated.
.TP 12
\s-1R_ADDRTYPE\s+1
The type of relocation item.
.TP 12
\s-1R_NOTHING\s+1
The entry is to be ignored.
.TP 12
\s-1R_ADDRESS\s+1
The entry is a reference to a symbol's virtual address.
.TP 12
\s-1R_LINKENTRY\s+1
The entry is a reference to a symbol's link table index.
.TP 12
\s-1R_RELTO\s+1
The action to perform when relocating.
.TP 12
\s-1R_ABS\s+1
Keep symbol's address as such.
.TP 12
\s-1R_PCREL\s+1
Subtract the pc address of hole.
.TP 12
\s-1R_SBREL\s+1
Subtract the static base start of this section's module.
.TP 12
\s-1R_FORMAT\s+1
Relocation item format.
.TP 12
\s-1R_NUMBER\s+1
Retain as two's complement value.
.TP 12
\s-1R_DISPL\s+1
Convert to displacement.
.TP 12
\s-1R_PROCDES\s+1
Convert to procedure descriptor.
.TP 12
\s-1R_IMMED\s+1
Convert to immediate operand.
.TP 12
\s-1R_SIZESP\s+1
Relocation item size.
.TP 12
\s-1R_S_08\s+1
Relocate 8 bits.
.TP 12
\s-1R_S_16\s+1
Relocate 16 bits.
.TP 12
\s-1R_S_32\s+1
Relocate 32 bits.
.PP
A symbol index of -1 indicates that
the relative difference between the current segment's start address and
the program's load address is added to the relocatable address.
\}
.PP
Other relocation types will be defined as they are needed.
.PP
Relocation entries are generated automatically by the
assembler and automatically utilized by the link editor. A link editor
option exists for removing the relocation entries from an object
file.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
a.out(4), syms(4).
.br
\*pld(1), \*pstrip(1) in the
\f2\s-1UNIX\s+1 System V User Reference Manual\fR.
.br
'\" \%W\%
.\"	%W% of %G%
