.TH SCNHDR 4
.SH NAME
scnhdr \- section header for a common object file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B
#include  <scnhdr.h>
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Every common object file has a table of section headers
to specify the layout of the data within the file.
Each section within an object file has its own header.
The C structure appears below.
.PP
.if t .RS
.ta \w'struct\ \ 'u +\w'unsign'u +\w'ed\ short\ \ 'u +\w's_lnnoptr\ ;\ \ 'u
.nf
.lg 0
struct	scnhdr
{
	char		s_name[\s-1SYMNMLEN\s+1]; /\(** section name \(**/
	long		s_paddr;	/\(** physical address \(**/
	long		s_vaddr;	/\(** virtual address \(**/
	long		s_size;		/\(** section size \(**/
	long		s_scnptr;	/\(** file ptr to raw data \(**/
	long		s_relptr;	/\(** file ptr to relocation \(**/
	long		s_lnnoptr;	/\(** file ptr to line numbers \(**/
	unsigned short	s_nreloc;	/\(** # reloc entries \(**/
	unsigned short	s_nlnno;	/\(** # line number entries \(**/
	long		s_flags;	/\(** flags \(**/
	long		s_symptr;	/\(** file pointer to symbol table entries \(**/
	unsigned short	s_modno;	/\(** module number of this section \(**/
	short		s_pad;	/\(** padding to 4 byte multiple \(**/
} ;
.fi
.lg
.if t .RE
.PP
File pointers are byte offsets into the file;
they can be used as the offset in a call to
.IR fseek (3S).
If a section is initialized, the file contains the
actual bytes.
An uninitialized section is somewhat different.
It has a size, symbols defined in it, and symbols
that refer to it.
But it can have no relocation entries, line numbers,
or data.
Consequently, an uninitialized section has no raw data
in the object file, and the values for
.IR s_scnptr ", " s_relptr ", " s_lnnoptr ,
.IR s_nreloc ", and " s_nlnno
are zero.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
fseek(3S), a.out(4).
.br
\*pld(1) in the
\f2\s-1UNIX\s+1 System V User Reference Manual\fR.
.br
'\" \%W\%
.\"	%W% of %G%
