'\" t
.TH EX 1 
.SH NAME
ex \- text editor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ex
[
.B \-
] [
.B \-v
] [
.B \-t 
.I tag\^
] [
.B \-r
] [
\fB\+\fIcommand\fR
] [
.B \-l
] [
.B \-x
]
name ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Ex\^
is the root of a family of editors:
.I ex\^
and
.I vi.\^
.I Ex\^
is a superset of
.I ed\^,
with the most notable extension being a display editing facility.
Display based editing is the focus of
.I vi\^.
.PP
If you have a \s-2CRT\s0 terminal, you may wish to use a display
based editor; in this case
see
.IR vi\^ (1),
which is a command which focuses on the display editing portion of
.I ex\^.
.SH DOCUMENTATION
The
.I "Ex Reference Manual"\^
is a comprehensive and complete manual for the command mode features
of
.I ex\^,
but you cannot learn to use the editor by reading it.
For an introduction to
more advanced forms of editing using the command mode of
.I ex\^
see the editing documents written by Brian Kernighan for the editor
.I ed\^;
the material in the introductory and advanced documents works also with
.I ex\^.
.PP
.I "An Introduction to Display Editing with Vi"\^
introduces the display editor
.I vi\^
and provides reference material on
.I vi\^.
The
.I "Vi Quick Reference"\^
card summarizes the commands
of
.I vi\^
in a useful, functional way, and is useful with the
.I Introduction\^.
.SH FOR ED USERS
If you have used
.I ed\^
you will find that
.I ex\^
has a number of new features useful on CRT terminals.
Intelligent terminals and high speed terminals are very pleasant to  use
with
.I vi\^.
Generally, the editor uses far more of the capabilities of terminals than
.I ed\^
does, and uses the terminal capability data base
.IR termcap (5)
and the type of the terminal you are using from the variable
TERM in the environment to determine how to drive your terminal efficiently.
The editor makes use of features such as insert and delete character and line
in its
.B visual
command
(which can be abbreviated \fBvi\fR)
and which is the central mode of editing when using
.IR vi\^ (1).
There is also an interline editing
.B open
(\fBo\fR)
command which works on all terminals.
.PP
.I Ex\^
contains a number of new features for easily viewing the text of the file.
The
.B z
command gives easy access to windows of text.
Hitting ^D causes the editor to scroll a half-window of text
and is more useful for quickly stepping through a file than just hitting
return.
Of course, the screen oriented
.B visual
mode gives constant access to editing context.
.PP
.I Ex\^
gives you more help when you make mistakes.
The
.B undo
(\fBu\fR)
command allows you to reverse any single change which goes astray.
.I Ex\^
gives you a lot of feedback, normally printing changed lines,
and indicates when more than a few lines are affected by a command
so that it is easy to detect when a command has affected more lines
than it should have.
.PP
The editor also normally prevents overwriting existing files unless you 
edited them so that you don't accidentally clobber
with a
.I write\^
a file other than the one you are editing.
If the system (or editor) crashes, or you accidentally hang up the phone,
you can use the editor
.B recover
command to retrieve your work.
This will get you back to within a few lines of where you left off.
.PP
.I Ex\^
has several features for dealing with more than one file at a time.
You can give it a list of files on the command line
and use the
.B next
(\fBn\fR) command to deal with each in turn.
The
.B next
command can also be given a list of file names, or a pattern
as used by the shell to specify a new set of files to be dealt with.
In general, filenames in the editor may be formed with full shell
metasyntax.
The metacharacter `%' is also available in forming filenames and is replaced
by the name of the current file.
.\" For editing large groups of related files you can use
.\" .I ex's\^
.\" .B tag
.\" command to quickly locate functions and other important points in 
.\" any of the files.
.\" This is useful when working on a large program when you want to quickly
.\" find the definition of a particular function.
.\" The command
.\" .IR ctags (1)
.\" builds a
.\" .I tags\^
.\" file or a group of C programs.
.PP
For moving text between files and within a file the editor has a group
of buffers, named
.I a\^
through
.I z.\^
You can place text in these
named buffers and carry it over when you edit another file.
.PP
There is a command
.B &
in
.I ex\^
which repeats the last
.B substitute
command.
In addition there is a
confirmed substitute command.
You give a range of substitutions to be done and the editor interactively
asks whether each substitution is desired.
.PP
It is possible to ignore case
of letters in searches and substitutions.
.I Ex\^
also allows regular expressions which match words to be constructed.
This is convenient, for example, in searching for the word
``edit'' if your document also contains the word ``editor.''
.PP
.I Ex\^
has a set of
.I options\^
which you can set to tailor it to your liking.
One option which is very useful is the
.I autoindent\^
option which allows the editor to automatically supply leading white
space to align text.  You can then use the ^D key as a backtab
and space and tab forward to align new code easily.
.PP
Miscellaneous new useful features include an intelligent
.B join
(\fBj\fR) command which supplies white space between joined lines
automatically,
commands < and > which shift groups of lines, and the ability to filter
portions of the buffer through commands such as
.I sort\^.
.SH " INVOCATION OPTIONS"
The following invocation options are interpreted by
.IR ex\^ :
.TP 15
.B \-
Suppress all interactive-user feedback.
This is useful in processing editor scripts.
.TP
.B \-v
Invokes 
.I vi\^
.TP
.BI \-t tag\^
Edit the file containing the 
.I tag\^
and position the editor at its definition.
.TP
.BI \-r file\^
Recover
.I file\^
after an editor or system crash.
If
.I file\^ 
is not specified a list of all 
saved files will be printed.
.TP
.BI \+ command
Begin editing by executing the specified editor
search or positioning
.I command\^.
.TP
.B \-l
.B LISP
mode; indents appropriately for lisp code,
the 
.B "() {} [["
and
.B ]]
commands in 
.I vi\^
and
.I open
are modified to have meaning for
.I lisp .
.TP
.B \-x
Encryption mode; a key is prompted for allowing creation or
editing of an encrypted file.
.PP
The 
.I name\^
argument indicates files to be edited.
.SH "Ex States"
.TP 15
Command
Normal and initial state.  Input prompted for by \fB:\fP.
Your kill character cancels partial command.
.TP
Insert
Entered by \fBa\fP \fBi\fP and \fBc\fP.
Arbitrary text may be entered.
Insert is  normaiiy terminated by line having only \fB.\fP
on it,
or abnormally with an interrupt.
.TP
Open/visual
Entered by \fBopen\fP or \fBvi\fP, terminates with \fBQ\fP
or ^\e.
.SH "Ex command names and abbreviarions"
.TS
lw(.45i) lw(.08i)b lw(.45i) lw(.08i)b lw(.45i) lw(.08i)b.
abbrev	ab	next	n	unabbrev	una
append	a	number	nu	undo	u
args	ar	open	o	unmap	unm
change	c	preserve	pre	version	ve
copy	co	print	p	visual	vi
delete	d	put	pu	write	w
edit	e	quit	q	xit	x
file	f	read	re	yank	ya
global	g	recover	rec	\fIwindow\fP	z
insert	i	rewind	rew	\fIescape\fP	!
join	j	set	se	\fIlshift\fP	<
list	l	shell	sh	\fIprint next\fP	\fRCR\fP
map		source	so	\fIresubst\fP	&
mark	ma	stop	st	\fIrshift\fP	>
move	m	substitute	s	\fIscroll\fP	^D
.TE
.SH "Ex Command Addresses"
.TS
lw(.3i)b lw(0.8i) lw(.3i)b lw(0.8i).
\fIn\fP	line \fIn\fP	/\fIpat\fP	next with \fIpat\fP
\&.	current	?\fIpat\fP	previous with \fIpat\fP
$	last	\fIx\fP-\fIn\fP	\fIn\fP before \fIx\fP
+	next	\fIx\fP,\fIy\fP	\fIx\fP through \fIy\fP
\-	previous	\(aa\fIx\fP	marked with \fIx\fP
+\fIn\fP	\fIn\fP forward	\(aa\(aa	previous context
%	1,$
.TE
.SS "Initializing options"
.TS
lw(.9i)b aw(1.5i).
EXINIT	place \fBset\fP's here in environment var.
$HOME/.exrc	editor initialization file
\&./.exrc  	editor initialization file
set \fIx\fP	enable option
set no\fIx\fP	disable option
set \fIx\fP=\fIval\fP	give value \fIval\fP
set	show changed options
set all	show all options
set \fIx\fP?	show value of option \fIx\fP
.TE
.SS "Useful options"
.TS
lw(.9i)b lw(.3i) lw(1.0i).
autoindent	ai	supply indent
autowrite	aw	write before changing files
ignorecase	ic	in scanning
lisp		\fB( ) { }\fP are s-exp's
list		print ^I for tab, $ at end
magic		\fB. [ *\fP special in patterns
number	nu	number lines
paragraphs	para	macro names which start ...
redraw		simulate smart terminal
scroll		command mode lines
sections	sect	macro names ...
shiftwidth	sw	for \fB< >\fP, and input \fB^D\fP
showmatch	sm	to \fB)\fP and \fB}\fP as typed
slowopen	slow	stop updates during insert
window		visual mode lines
wrapscan	ws	around end of buffer?
wrapmargin	wm	automatic line splitting
.TE
.SS "Scanning pattern formation"
.TS
aw(.9i)b aw(1.0i).
^	beginning of line
$	end of line
\fB.\fR	any character
\e<	beginning of word
\e>	end of word
[\fIstr\fP]	any char in \fIstr\fP
[\(ua\fIstr\fP]	... not in \fIstr\fP
[\fIx\-y\fP]	... between \fIx\fP and \fIy\fP
*	any number of preceding
.TE
.SH AUTHOR
.I Vi
and
.I ex
are based on software developed by
The Unviersity of California,
Berkeley California,
Computer Science Division,
Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science.
.SH FILES
.TS
lw(.9i)b aw(1.5i).
/usr/lib/ex?.?strings	error messages
/usr/lib/ex?.?recover	recover command
/usr/lib/ex?.?preserve	preserve command
/etc/termcap	describes capabilities of terminals
$HOME/.exrc	editor startup file
\&./.exrc  	editor startup file
/tmp/Ex\fInnnnn\fR	editor temporary
/tmp/Rx\fInnnnn\fR	named buffer temporary
/usr/preserve	preservation directory
.TE
.SH SEE ALSO
awk(1), ed(1), grep(1), sed(1), vi(1), termcap(5)
.SH "CAVEATS AND BUGS"
The version of
.I ex
that runs on the 
.B PDP11
does not support the full command set due to space limitations.
The commands which are not supported are detailed in the
``Ex Reference Manual.''
The most notable commands which are missing are the macro and abbreviation
facilities.
.PP
The
.I undo\^
command causes all marks to be lost on lines changed and then restored
if the marked lines were changed.
.PP
.I Undo\^
never clears the buffer modified condition.
.PP
The
.I z\^
command prints a number of logical rather than physical lines.
More than a screen full of output may result if long lines are present.
.PP
File input/output errors don't print a name
if the command line \fB`\-'\fR option is used.
.PP
There is no easy way to do a single scan ignoring case.
.PP
The editor does not warn if text is placed in named buffers
and not used before exiting the editor.
.PP
Null characters are discarded in input files,
and cannot appear in resultant files.
