.TH AS 1 "not on PDP-11"
.SH NAME
\*pas \- common assembler
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR \*pas
.if '\*p'm32' .BR \-v type
.RB "[" \-o " objfile]"
.if '\*p'x86' .RB \-x
.if '\*p'3b' .RB "[" \-Q "]"
.RB "[" \-n "]"
.RB "[" \-m "]"
.RB "[" \-R "]"
.RB "[" \-r "]"
.RB "[" \-[bwl] "]"
.RB "[" \-V "]"
file-name
.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.I \*pas
command
assembles the named file.
.if '\*p'b16' \{\
The output file is executable if no errors
occurred during the assembly, transfer vectors were not used,
and there are no unresolved external references.\}
The following flags
may be specified in any order:
.if '\*p'm32' \{\
.TP \w'\fB\-o\fP\ \fIobjfile\fP\ \ 'u
.BI \-v " type"
type is either an 'x' indicating the original
.B \*p
assembler or an 'a' indicating the
.B \*pa
assembler.
\}
.TP \w'\fB\-o\fP\ \fIobjfile\fP\ \ 'u
.BI \-o " objfile"
Output of assembly is put in
.IR objfile .
By default, the output file name is formed by
removing the 
.B .s
suffix, if there is one, from the input file name
and appending a 
.B .o
suffix.
.if '\*p'x86' \{\
.TP
.B \-x
This
flag is
.I required
for all x86 files.
\}
.if '\*p'3b' \{
.TP
.B \-Q
Warns the user if a transfer vector operand is used
in any context other than a "call" instruction.
\}
.TP
.B \-n
Turns off long/short address optimization.
By default, address optimization takes place.
.TP
.B \-m
Runs the 
.I m4
macro pre-processor
on the input to the assembler.
.TP
.B \-R
Instructs the assembler to delete (unlink) the input file after assembly
is completed.  This option is off by default.
.TP
.B \-r
For the \s-1VAX\s+1 version of the common assembler only.  This option instructs
the assembler to place all assembled data (normally placed in the .data
section) into the .text section.  This option effectively disables the
.I .data
pseudo operation.
This option is off by default.
.TP
.B \-[bwl]
For the \s-1VAX\s+1 version of the common assembler only.  This option instructs
the assembler to create byte
.RB ( b )
, halfword
.RB ( w )
or long
.RB ( l )
displacements for
undefined symbols.  The default value for this option is long 
.RB ( l )
displacements.
.TP
.B \-V
Causes the version number of the assembler being run
to be written on standard error.
.SH FILES
.RI /usr/tmp/\*pas[1-6] XXXXXX
temporary files
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.if \nC \{\
.I
IS25 \(em The 3B Family Common Instruction Set \(em Release 2.
D. A. Poplawski.\}
.nr C 0
.if '\*p'b16' .nr C 1
.if '\*p'x86' .nr C 1
.if \nC \{\
S. J. Trowbridge,
.I
Basic-16 Assembly Language Reference Manual.
.br
H. G. Roberts,
.I
Addendum to Basic-16 Assembly Reference Manual.\}
.br
\*pld(1),
m4(1),
\*pnm(1),
\*pstrip(1),
a.out(4).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
If the input file cannot be read,
the assembly will terminate with the message
"Unable to open input file".
If assembly errors are detected
the following information is written to standard error:
the input file name, line number where the error occurred
in the assembly code,
a (hopefully) descriptive message of the problem,
and, if the input file was produced by the C compiler \c
.RI "(see " \*pcc (1))
the line number in the C program that generated
the erroneous code.
.SH CAVEATS
Those running the assembler
explicitly should take note of some possible pitfalls:
.if '\*p'3b' \{
.IP \- 5
If the input file does not contain a 
.B .file
assembler directive and the
.B \-m
flag was not specified,
the file name given by the assembler when an
error occurs is one of the temporary files
.RB ( /usr/tmp/\*pas \s-1XXXXXX\s+1)
\}
.IP \- 5
If the 
.B \-m
(
.I m4
macro pre-processor invocation) option is used,
keywords for
.I m4
.RI "(see " m4 (1))
cannot be used as symbols (variables, functions, labels)
in the input file since
.I m4
cannot determine which are assembler symbols and 
which are real 
.I m4
macros.
.SH BUGS
The
.if '\*p'b16' .B .even
.if '\*p'x86' .B .even
.if '\*p'3b' .B .align
.if '\*p'm32' .B .align
.if '\*p'' .B .align
assembler directive is not guaranteed to work
in the
.B .text
section when optimization is performed.
.PP
Arithmetic expressions may only have
one forward referenced symbol per expression.
'\" \%W\%
.\"	@(#)as.1	5.2 of 5/18/82
