.TH AS 1 "PDP-11 only"
.SH NAME
as \- assembler for \s-1PDP\s+1-11
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B as
[
.B \-
] [
.B \-o
objfile
] file ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I As\^
assembles the concatenation of the named files.
If the optional first argument
.B \-
is used,
all undefined symbols in the assembly
are treated as global.
.PP
The output of the assembly is left on the file
.IR objfile ;
if that is omitted,
.B a.out
is used.
It is executable if no errors occurred
during the assembly,
and if there were no unresolved external references.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 1.2i
/lib/as2   
pass 2 of the assembler
.TP
/tmp/atm[1-3]?
temporary
.TP
a.out
object
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
adb(1),
ld(1),
nm(1),
a.out(4).
.br
.I "\s-1UNIX\s0 System Assembler Manual\^"
by D. M. Ritchie.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
If the name chosen for the output file is of the form
.BR *?.[cs] ,
the assembler issues an appropriate complaint and quits.
When
an input file cannot be read, its name
followed by a question mark is typed and assembly
ceases.
When syntactic or semantic errors occur, a single-character diagnostic is typed out
together with the line number and the file name in which it
occurred.
Errors in pass 1 cause cancellation of pass 2.
The possible errors are:
.PP
.RS
.PD 0
.TP
.B )
Parentheses error
.TP
.B ]
Parentheses error
.TP
.B <
String not terminated properly
.TP
.B \(**
Indirection used illegally
.TP
.B .
Illegal assignment to
.B .
.TP
.B a
Error in address
.TP
.B b
Branch instruction is odd or too remote
.TP
.B e
Error in expression
.TP
.B f
Error in local (\f3f\fP or \f3b\fP) type symbol
.TP
.B g
Garbage (unknown) character
.TP
.B i
End of file inside an
.I .if\^
.TP
.B m
Multiply-defined symbol as label
.TP
.B o
Word quantity assembled at odd address
.TP
.B p
.B .
different in pass 1 and 2
.TP
.B r
Relocation error
.TP
.B u
Undefined symbol
.TP
.B x
Syntax error
.PD
.SH BUGS
Syntax errors can cause incorrect line numbers
in subsequent diagnostics.
.\"	@(#)as.pdp.1	5.2 of 5/18/82
