.TH F77 1
.SH NAME
f77 \- Fortran 77 compiler
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B f77
[ options ] files
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I F77\^
is the
.SM UNIX
Fortran 77 compiler;
it accepts several types of
.I file\^
arguments:
.RS
.PP
Arguments whose names end with
.B \&.f
are taken to be
Fortran 77 source programs;
they are compiled and
each object program is left in the current directory
in a file
whose name is that of the source, with
.B \&.o
substituted
for
.BR \&.f .
.PP
Arguments whose names end with
.B \&.r
or
.B \&.e
are taken to be
.SM RATFOR
or
.SM EFL
source programs, respectively; these are first transformed by the
appropriate preprocessor, then compiled by
.IR f77 ,
producing
.B \&.o
files.
.PP
In the same way,
arguments whose names end with
.B \&.c
or
.B \&.s
are taken to be
C
or assembly source programs
and are compiled or assembled, producing
.B \&.o
files.
.RE
.PP
The following
.I options\^
have the same meaning as in
.IR cc (1)
(see
.IR ld (1)
for link editor options):
.PP
.PD 0
.TP 12
.B \-c
Suppress link editing and produce
.B \&.o
files for each source
file.
.TP
.B \-p
Prepare object files for profiling (see
.IR prof (1)).
.TP
.B \-O
Invoke an
object-code optimizer.
.TP
.B \-S
Compile the named programs and leave the
assembler-language output in corresponding files whose names are suffixed
with
.BR \&.s .
(No
.B \&.o
files are created.)
.TP
.BI \-o "output\^"
Name the final output file
.IR output ,
instead of
.BR a.out .
.TP
.B \-f
In systems without floating-point hardware,
use a version of
.I f77\^
that handles floating-point
constants and
links the object program with the floating-point interpreter.
.TP
.B \-g
Generate additional information needed for the use of
.IR sdb (1)
(\s-1VAX\s+1\&-11/780 only).
.PD
.PP
The following
.I options\^
are peculiar to
.IR f77 :
.PP
.PD 0
.TP 12
.B \-onetrip
Compile
.SM DO
loops that are performed at least once if reached.
(Fortran 77
.SM DO
loops are not performed at all if the upper limit is smaller than the lower limit.)
.TP
.B \-1
Same as
.BR \-onetrip .
.TP
.B \-66
Suppress extensions which enhance Fortran 66 compatibility.
.TP
.B \-C
Generate code for run-time subscript range-checking.
.TP
.BR \-I [ 24s ] 
Change the default size of integer variables (only valid on
machines where the ``normal'' integer size is not equal to the
size of a single precision real).
.BR \-I2
causes all integers to be 2-byte quantities,
.BR \-I4
(default)
causes all integers to be 4-byte quantities, and
.BR \-Is
changes the default size of subscript expressions (only)
from the size of an integer to 2 bytes.
.TP
.B \-U
Do not "fold" cases.
.I F77
is normally a no-case language (i.e.
.B a
is equal to
.BR A ).
The
.B \-U
option
causes
.I f77
to treat upper and lower cases to be separate.
.TP
.B \-u
Make the default type of a variable
.IR undefined ,
rather than using the default Fortran rules.
.TP
.B \-w
Suppress all warning messages.
If the option is
.BR \-w66 ,
only Fortran 66 compatibility warnings are suppressed.
.TP
.B \-F
Apply
.SM EFL
and
.SM RATFOR
preprocessor to relevant files, put the result in files
whose names have their suffix changed to
.BR \&.of .
(No
.B \&.o
files are created.)
.TP
.B \-m
Apply the M4 preprocessor to each
.SM EFL
or
.SM RATFOR
source file before transforming
with the
.IR ratfor (1)
or
.IR ef\&l (1)
processors.
.TP
.B \-E
The remaining characters in the argument are used as an
.SM EFL
flag argument whenever processing
a
.B \&.e
file.
.TP
.B \-R
The remaining characters in the argument are used as a
.SM RATFOR
flag argument whenever
processing a
.B \&.r
file.
.PD
.PP
Other arguments
are taken
to be either link-editor option arguments or
.IR f77 -compilable
object programs (typically produced by an earlier
run),
or libraries of
.IR f77 -compilable
routines.
These programs, together with the results of any
compilations specified, are linked (in the order
given) to produce an executable program with the default name
.B a.out .
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
file.[fresc]
input file
.TP
file.o
object file
.TP
a.out
linked output
.TP
\&./fort[\fIpid\fP].?
temporary
.TP
/usr/lib/f77pass1
compiler
.TP
/lib/c1
pass 2
.TP
/lib/c2
optional optimizer
.TP
/usr/lib/libF77.a
intrinsic function library
.TP
/usr/lib/libI77.a
Fortran I/O library
.TP
/lib/libc.a
C library; see Section 3 of this Manual.
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.I "A Portable Fortran 77 Compiler"
by S. I. Feldman and P. J. Weinberger.
.br
asa(1),
cc(1),
ef\&l(1),
fsplit(1),
ld(1),
m4(1),
prof(1),
ratfor(1),
sdb(1).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The diagnostics produced by
.I f77\^
itself are intended to be
self-explanatory.
Occasional messages may be produced by the link editor
.IR ld (1).
.\"	@(#)f77.1	5.2 of 5/18/82
