.TH FGET 1C "DEC only"
.SH NAME
fget, fget.demon \- retrieve files from the \s-1HONEYWELL\s+1 6000
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fget
[ options ] [ files ]
.br
.B /usr/lib/fget.demon
time
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Fget\^
arranges to have
one or more
.SM GCOS
files sent to the
\s-1UNIX\s+1 System.
.SM GCOS
identification must appear in
the
.SM UNIX
System password file (see
.IR passwd (4)),
or be supplied by the
.B \-i
option.
Normally, the files retrieved will appear in the
.SM UNIX
System user's
current directory under the
.SM GCOS
file name.
.I Fget.demon
is the daemon that does the actual retrieval.
.PP
The
.SM GCOS
catalog from which the files are obtained
depends on the form of the file name
argument.
If the file name has only embedded slashes,
then it is assumed to be a full
.SM GCOS
path name and that file is
retrieved.
If the file name has no embedded slashes or begins with
a slash,
then the
.SM GCOS
catalog from which the file is
retrieved is the same as the
.SM UNIX
System login name of the person
who issues the command.
If, however, a user has a different name in the
third field of the
.SM GCOS
``ident card image''
(which image is extracted from the
.SM UNIX
System password file\-see
.IR passwd (4)),
this name is taken as the
.SM GCOS
catalog name.
Whatever
.SM GCOS
catalog is finally
used, the files must either have general read permission
or the user must have arranged that the user
.SM ID
.I network\^
has read permission on that catalog (see
.IR fsend (1C)).
This can be accomplished with the
.SM GCOS
command:
.RS
.PP
filsys \|mc \|<user \s-1ID\s+1>,(r)/network/
.RE
.PP
The
.SM UNIX
System file into which the retrieved
.SM GCOS
file will
ultimately be written is initialized with one line
containing the complete
.SM GCOS
file name.
If the file contains the initial line for an extended period,
it means that
.SM GCOS
is down or something has gone horribly wrong
and you should try again.
.PP
The following options, each as a separate argument
may appear in any order
but must precede all file arguments.
.PP
.PD 0
.TP 7
.B  \-a
Retrieve files as
.SM ASCII
(default).
.TP 7
.B  \-b
Retrieve files as binary.
.TP 7
.BI \-d dir
Use
.I dir
as the
.SM UNIX
System directory into which
retrieved files are written.
.TP 7
.BI \-f file
Use
.I file
as the
.SM UNIX
System filename for the retrieved file.
.TP 7
.BI \-i job,bin
Supply the
.SM GCOS
``ident card'' image as the parameter
.BI \-i job,bin
where
.I job
is the
.SM GCOS
job number and
.I bin
the
.SM GCOS
bin number
or any comment to the
.SM GCOS
operators.
.TP 7
.B  \-m
When the request has been forwarded to \s-1GCOS\s+1, report by
.IR mail (1)
the so-called
.I snumb\^
of the receiving
job;
mail is sent by the
.SM UNIX
System
.IR dpd (1C)
daemon;
there is no guarantee that the
.SM GCOS
job ran
or that the
.SM UNIX
System retrieved the output.
This is the default option.
.TP 7
.B  \-n
Do not report the forwarding of the request by
.IR mail (1).
.TP 7
.B  \-o
Print the on-line
.SM GCOS
accounting output.
.TP 7
.B  \-t
Toss out the on-line
.SM GCOS
accounting output.
This is the default option.
.TP 7
.BI \-s n\^
Submit job to
.SM GCOS
with service grade
.I n\^
.RI ( n "=1, 2, 3, 4)."
Default is
.BR \-s1 .
.TP 7
.BI \-u userid
Use
.I userid
as the
.SM GCOS
catalog name for all files.
.PD
.PP
The
.SM GCOS
job to send the requested files to the
.SM UNIX
System is sent by the
.IR dpd (1C)
daemon.
Receiving these files
is then done by
a corresponding retrieval daemon,
.IR fget.demon ,
which stays alive for a minimum of
.I time
seconds,
(default 360),
or until it has successfully retrieved one or more files.
The file
.B glock
in the spooling directory
.BR /usr/spool/dpd
is used
to prevent two daemons from becoming active simultaneously.
After the program has successfully set the lock,
it forks and the main path exits, thus
spawning the daemon.
.SM GRTS
is interrogated for any output for the daemon's station-id.
If none,
.I fget.demon\^
will wait up to
.I time\^
seconds,
interrogating
.SM GRTS
every minute or so to see if any output has arrived.
All problems and successful transactions are recorded
in the
.B errors
file in the spooling directory.
.PP
To restart
.I fget.demon\^
(in the case of hardware or software malfunction),
it is necessary to first kill the old
.I fget.demon\^
(if still alive),
and remove the lock file
(if present),
before initiating
.IR fget.demon .
This should be done automatically
by
.I /etc/rc
when the system is brought up,
in case there are any files waiting to come over.
.SH EXAMPLES
The command:
.RS
.PP
fget \|\-u\|gcosme \|\-t \|\-n \|\-d\|/usr/me/test \|file1 \|file2
.RE
.PP
will retrieve the
.SM GCOS
files
.B gcosme/file1
and
.BR gcosme/file2 ,
as the
.SM UNIX
System files
.B /usr/me/test/file1
and
.BR /usr/me/test/file2 ,
respectively,
but will not generate any mail or
.SM GCOS
accounting output
as a result of the transaction.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
/etc/passwd
user's identification and
.SM GCOS
ident card.
.TP
/usr/lib/dpd
sending daemon.
.TP
/usr/spool/dpd/\(**
spool area.
.TP
/dev/dn?
.SM ACU\*S device.
.TP
/dev/du?
.SM DATA-PHONE
data set.
.TP
/dev/vpb?
Bottom
.SM VPM
device to interface to
.SM KMC\*S11-B.
.TP
/dev/vpm?
Top
.SM VPM
device to interface to
.SM KMC\*S11-B.
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
dpd(1C), dpr(1C), fsend(1C), passwd(4).
.\"	@(#)fget.1c	5.2 of 5/18/82
