.TH FSEND 1C "DEC only"
.SH NAME
fsend \- send files to the \s-1HONEYWELL\s+1 6000
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fsend
[ options ] [ files ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Fsend\^
arranges to have
one or more
.SM UNIX
System files sent to
.SM HONEYWELL
\s-1GCOS\s+1.
.SM GCOS
identification must appear in
the
.SM UNIX
System password file (see
.IR passwd (4)),
or be supplied by the
.B \-i
option.
If no names appear, the standard input is sent; thus
.I fsend\^
may be used as a filter.
.PP
Normally, the catalog on the
.SM HONEYWELL
file system
in which the new file will appear is the same as the
.SM UNIX
System login name of the person who issues the command.
If, however, a user has a different name in the
third field of the
.SM GCOS
``ident card image''
(which image is extracted from the
.SM UNIX
System
password file; see
.IR passwd (4)),
this name is taken as the
.SM GCOS
catalog name.
Whatever
.SM GCOS
catalog is finally
used, the user must have arranged that the user
.SM ID
``network''
has create permission on that catalog,
or read and write permission on the individual files.
The latter is more painful
but preferred if access to other files in the catalog
is to be fully controlled.
This can be accomplished with the
.SM GCOS
commands:
.PP
.RS
filsys \|mc \|<user \s-1ID\s+1>,c/network/,m/\|<user \s-1ID\s+1>/
.RE
or
.RS
filsys \|cf \|<file>,w/network/,b/<initial-size>,unlimited/
.RE
.PP
The name of the
.SM GCOS
file is ordinarily the same
as the name of the
.SM UNIX
System file.
When the standard input is sent,
the
.SM GCOS
file is normally taken to be
.BR pipe.end .
.PP
The following options, each as a separate argument,
may appear in any order
but must precede all file name arguments.
.PP
.PD 0
.TP 7
.B \-a
Send succeeding files as
.SM ASCII
(default).
If the last character of the file is not a new-line,
one is added.
All other characters are preserved.
.TP 7
.B \-b
Send succeeding files as binary.
Each
.SM UNIX
System byte is right justified
in a
.SM GCOS
byte and the bytes packed into 120-byte logical records
(30
.SM GCOS
words).
The last record is padded out with \s-1NUL\s+1s.
.TP 7
.B \-c
Make copies of the files to be sent before returning to the user.
.TP 7
.B \-r
Remove the files after sending them.
.TP 7
.BI \-f file
Use
.I file
as the
.SM GCOS
file name for the file being sent.
.TP 7
.BI \-i job,bin
Supply the
.SM GCOS
``ident card'' image as the parameter
.BI \-i job,bin
where
.I job
is the
.SM GCOS
job number and
.I bin
the
.SM GCOS
bin number
or any comment to the
.SM GCOS
operators.
.TP 7
.B \-m
When transmission is complete, report by
.IR mail (1)
the so-called
.I snumb\^
of the receiving
.SM GCOS
job.
The mail is sent by the
.SM UNIX
System daemon;
there is no guarantee that the
.SM GCOS
job ran successfully.
This is the default option.
.TP 7
.B \-n
Do not report the completion of transmission by
.IR mail (1).
.TP 7
.B \-o
Print the on-line
.SM GCOS
accounting output.
.TP 7
.B \-t
Toss out the on-line
.SM GCOS
accounting output.
This is the default option.
.TP 7
.BI \-s n\^
Submit job to
.SM GCOS
with service grade
.I n\^
.RI ( n "=1, 2, 3, 4)."
Default is
.BR \-s1 .
.TP 7
.BI \-u userid
Use
.I userid
as the
.SM GCOS
catalog name for all files.
.TP 7
.B \-x
Send succeeding files to be archived by the
.SM GCOS
archive command.
.PD
.SH EXAMPLE
The command:
.RS
.PP
fsend \|\-t \|\-u\|unixsup \|\-b \|\-f\|gfile \|ufile
.RE
.PP
will send the binary
.SM UNIX
System file
.B ufile
to become the
.SM GCOS
file
.BR unixsup/gfile ,
and will not produce any on-line
.SM GCOS
accounting output.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
/etc/passwd
user's identification and
.SM GCOS
ident card.
.TP
/usr/lib/dpd
sending daemon.
.TP
/usr/spool/dpd/\(**
spool area.
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
dpd(1C), dpr(1C), fget(1C), gcat(1C), mail(1).
.\"	@(#)fsend.1c	5.2 of 5/18/82
