.TH GCAT 1C
.SH NAME
gcat \- send phototypesetter output to the \s-1HONEYWELL\s+1 6000
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gcat
[ options ] [ files ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Gcat\^
arranges to have
.IR troff (1)
output sent to
the phototypesetter or debugging devices
(\s-1STARE\s+1 or line printer)
attached to the
.SM HONEYWELL
system.
.SM GCOS
identification must appear in
the
.SM UNIX
System password file (see
.IR passwd (4)),
or be supplied by the
.B \-i
option.
If no file name appears, the standard input is sent; thus
.I gcat\^
may be used as an output pipe for
.IR troff (1).
.PP
The option
.B \-g
(for \s-1GCOS\s+1) must be used
with the
.IR troff (1)
command to make things work properly.
This command string sends output to the
.SM GCOS
phototypesetter:
.PP
.RS
troff \|\-g \|file \|\(bv \|gcat
.RE
.PP
The following options, each as a separate argument,
and in any combination (multiple outputs are permitted),
may be given after gcat:
.PP
.PD 0
.TP 7
.B \-ph
Send output to the phototypesetter.
This is a default option.
.TP 7
.B \-st
Send output to
.SM STARE
for fast turn-around.
.TP 7
.B \-tx
Send output as text to the line printer
(useful for checking spelling, hyphenation, pagination, etc.).
.TP 7
.B \-du
Send output to the line printer, dummied up to make the
format correct.
Because many characters are dropped, the output is unreadable,
but useful for seeing the shape (margins, etc.) of the document.
.TP 7
.B \-c
Make a copy of the file to be sent before returning to the user.
.TP 7
.B \-r
Remove the file after sending it.
.TP 7
.BI \-f file
Use
.I file
as a dummy file name to report back in the mail.
(This is useful for distinguishing multiple runs, especially when
.I gcat\^
is being used as a filter).
.TP 7
.BI \-i job,bin
Supply the
.SM GCOS
``ident card'' image as the parameter
.BI \-i job,bin
where
.I job
is the
.SM GCOS
job number and
.I bin
the
.SM GCOS
bin number
or any comment to the
.SM GCOS
operators.
.TP 7
.B \-m
When transmission is complete, report by
.IR mail (1)
the so-called
.I snumb\^
of the receiving
.SM GCOS
job.
The mail is sent by the
.SM UNIX
daemon;
there is no guarantee that the
.SM GCOS
job ran successfully.
This is a default option.
.TP 7
.B \-n
Do not report the completion of transmission by
.IR mail (1).
.TP 7
.B \-o
Print the on-line
.SM GCOS
accounting output.
.TP 7
.B \-t
Toss out the on-line
.SM GCOS
accounting output.
This is a default option.
.TP 7
.BI \-s n\^
Submit job to
.SM GCOS
with service grade
.I n\^
.RI ( n "=1, 2, 3, 4)."
Default is
.BR \-s1 .
.PD
.PP
If none of the output options are specified,
phototypesetter output
.RB ( \-ph )
is assumed by default.
.SH EXAMPLE
The command:
.PP
.RS
troff \|\-g \|myfile \|\(bv \|gcat \|\-st \|\-im1234,m567,myname \|\-f\|myfile
.RE
.PP
will send the output of
.IR troff (1)
to \s-1STARE\s+1,
with the
.SM GCOS
``ident card'' specifying ``M1234,M567,\s-1MYNAME\s+1'',
and will report back that
.B myfile
has been sent.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
/etc/passwd
user's identification and
.SM GCOS
ident card.
.TP
/usr/lib/dpd
sending daemon.
.TP
/usr/spool/dpd/\(**
spool area.
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
dpd(1C), dpr(1C), fget(1C), fsend(1C), troff(1).
.\"	@(#)gcat.1c	5.2 of 5/18/82
