.TH GCOSMAIL 1C
.SH NAME
gcosmail \- send mail to \s-1HIS\s+1 user
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gcosmail
[ option ... ] [ \s-1HIS\s+1userid ... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Gcosmail\^
takes the standard input
up to an end of file
and sends it as mail
to the named users on the
.SM HONEYWELL
6000 system,
using the
.SM HIS
.I mail\^
command.
The following options
are recognized by
.IR gcosmail :
.PP
.PD 0
.TP 7
.BI \-f file
Use
.I file
as a dummy file name to report back in the mail.
(This is useful for distinguishing multiple runs).
.TP 7
.BI \-i job,bin
Supply the
.SM GCOS
``ident card'' image as the parameter
.BI \-i job,bin
where
.I job
is the
.SM GCOS
job number and
.I bin
the
.SM GCOS
bin number
or any comment to the
.SM GCOS
operators.
.TP 7
.B \-m
When transmission is complete, report by
.IR mail (1)
the so-called
.I snumb\^
of the receiving
.SM GCOS
job.
The mail is sent by the
.SM UNIX
System daemon;
there is no guarantee that the
.SM GCOS
job ran successfully.
This is a default option.
.TP 7
.B \-n
Do not report the completion of transmission by
.IR mail (1).
.TP 7
.B \-o
Print the on-line
.SM GCOS
accounting output.
.TP 7
.B \-t
Toss out the on-line
.SM GCOS
accounting output.
This is a default option.
.TP 7
.BI \-s n\^
Submit job to
.SM GCOS
with service grade
.I n\^
.RI ( n "=1, 2, 3, 4)."
Default is
.BR \-s1 .
.PD
.PP
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
/etc/passwd
user's identification and
.SM GCOS
ident card.
.TP
/usr/lib/dpd
sending daemon.
.TP
/usr/spool/dpd/\(**
spool area.
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
dpd(1C), dpr(1C), fsend(1C).
.\"	@(#)gcosmail.1c	5.2 of 5/18/82
