.\"%W%
.TH NET 1C "DEC only"
.SH NAME
net \- execute a command on the \s-1PCL\s+1 network
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B net\^
system\ [\|command\ [\|args\|]\^]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Net\^
provides a bi-directional connection to another \s-1UNIX\s+1 System.
The first argument is the name of the remote
.IR system .
The second argument is a
.I command
to be executed.
Any remaining arguments are passed to the given command as arguments.
.P
.I System
can be any name that exists in the directory
.I /dev/pcl
followed by a channel number.
.I Net
passes the local \fBnodename\fR to the remote
.IR system .
.P
All commands are passed to the user's default shell on the remote system
executing in the user's home directory.
If
.I command
is not given,
then the default command is an interactive shell
.RB ( "/bin/sh \-i" ).
Before execution starts,
the user's environment is extracted from the remote \fB.profile\fR
file, if any.
.P
.I Net
reads the standard input, thus allowing
.I command
to be part of a ``pipeline'' if
.I command
reads the standard input also.
.P
At the remote end,
a daemon logs all commands.
.SH EXAMPLES
Execute the
.IR who (1)
command on system A and return the output to your terminal: 
.P
.RS 2
net \|A \|who
.RE
.P
Copy one file from system A to the local system:
.P
.RS 2
net \|A \|"cat /file/on/A" \|> \|/file/on/localsys
.RE
.P
Copy a directory structure from system A to the
local system:
.P
.RS 2
cd \|/dir/on/localsys
.br
net \|A \|"cd \|/dir/on/A; \|find 
.B \|.
\|\-print \|\(bv \|cpio \|\-oc" \|\(bv \|cpio \|\-icd
.RE
.P
Send a directory structure from the local system to system A
(this uses the command's ability to read standard input):
.P
.RS 2
find \|\fB.\fP \|\-print \|\(bv \|cpio \|\-oc \|\(bv \|net \|A \|"cd \|/dir/on/A\fB;\fP \|cpio \|\-icd"
.RE
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP "\w'/dev/pcl/\fI?\fP[0-7]  'u"
/dev/pcl/\fI*\fP[0-7]
.SM PCL
channel interfaces for system
.IR * .
.TP
/usr/adm/pcllog
Activity log.
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
cpio(1),
find(1),
pcldaemon(1C),
sh(1),
pcl(7).
.ne 10
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP
.I uid unknown
Your
.I uid
cannot be matched in the password file.
.TP
.I command list too long
A command and its arguments are restricted to less than 512 bytes.
.TP
.I user is unknown at remote
Your login name does not exist at the remote site.
.TP
.I user is denied access at remote
Your login name is not allowed to be used via
.I net
at the remote site.
N.B. This applies in particular to super-users.
.TP
.I home directory inaccessible
Your remote home directory is unavailable, possibly unmounted.
.TP
.I cannot open channel to system
A connection can't be made to the requested system.
.TP
.I connection broken
A non-recoverable write error occurred.
.TP
.I write error
A recoverable write error occurred.
The write will be retried until it completes successfully without losing data.
.TP
.I cannot fork reader process
.I Net\^
is unable to create a reader process and a writer process.
.SH WARNINGS
A successful invocation of
.I net
reads at least 2 blocks of the standard input, if present,
even if
.I command
does not use standard input.
The standard input must be explicitly closed
(via
.BR <&\- )
or redirected
(such as from
.BR /dev/null )
if this feature is not desired.
.br
The use of
.I net 
to invoke certain programs on the remote system may result
in delayed transmission of output to the user.
This is because the \s-1PCL\s+1 is not a tty device.
Data written to standard output by an invoked program
will be treated as though it is being written to an
ordinary file, and not to a user terminal.
.SH BUGS
\s-1PCL\s+1 channels are not ``tty'' files, so
that commands that do ``funny'' things with your terminal (i.e.,
.IR cu (1C),
.IR passwd (1),
.IR su (1),
etc.),
or that expect ``tty'' behaviour of the standard output file,
won't work as expected.
