.TH NM 1 "not on PDP-11"
.SH NAME
\*pnm \- print name list of common object file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \*pnm
.RB [ \-o ]
.RB [ \-x ]
.RB [ \-h ]
.RB [ \-v ]
.RB [ \-n ]
.RB [ \-e ]
.RB [ \-f ]
.RB [ \-u ]
.RB [ \-V ]
file-names
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I \*pnm
command
displays the symbol table of each
common object file
.IR file-name .
.I File-name
may be a relocatable or absolute common object file;
or it may be an archive of relocatable or absolute common object files.
For each symbol, the following information will be printed:
.PP
.TP 9
.B Name
The name of the symbol.
.TP 9
.B Value
Its value expressed as an offset or an address
depending on its storage class.
.TP 9
.B Class
Its storage class.
.nr C 1
.if '\*p'n3b' .nr C 0
.if '\*p'm32' .nr C 0
.if \nC \{\
.TP 9
.B Type
Its type and derived type.
If the symbol is an instance of a structure or of a union then the structure
or union tag will be given following the type (e.g. struct-tag).
If the symbol is an array, then the array dimensions will be given 
following the type (eg.,
.BR char[ n ][ m ] ).
Note that the object file must have been compiled with the \fB\-g\fR
option of the
.IR cc (1)
command for this information to appear.
.TP 9
.B Size
Its size in bytes, if available.
Note that the object file must have been compiled with the \fB\-g\fR
option of the
.IR cc (1)
command for this information to appear.
.TP 9
.B Line
The source line number at which it is defined, if available.
Note that the object file must have been compiled with the \fB\-g\fR
option of the
.IR cc (1)
command for this information to appear.
.TP 9
.B Section
For storage classes static and external,
the object file section containing the symbol (e.g., text, data or bss).
.DT
.br
.PP
The output of
.I \*pnm
may be controlled using the following flags:
.PP
.TP 9
.B \-o
A symbol's value and size will be printed in octal instead of decimal.
.PP
.TP 9
.B \-x
A symbol's value and size will be printed in hexadecimal instead of decimal.
.PP
.TP 9
.B \-h
The output header data is not displayed.
.PP
.TP 9
.B \-v
External symbols will be sorted by value before they are printed.
.PP
.TP 9
.B \-n
External symbols will be sorted by name before they are printed.
.PP
.TP 9
.B \-e
Only static and external symbols are printed.
.PP
.TP 9
.B \-f
Full output is produced.  Redundant symbols (.text, .data and .bss),
normally suppressed, are printed.
.TP 9
.B \-u
Only undefined symbols are printed.
.PP
.TP 9
.B \-V
Version of \*pnm command executing is displayed on stderr output.
.DT
.br
.PP
Flags may be used in any order, either singly or in combination,
and may appear anywhere in the command line.
Therefore, both 
.B "\*pnm name \-e \-v"
and
.B "\*pnm \-ve name"
print the static and external symbols in
.IR name ,
with external symbols sorted by value.
.SH "FILES"
/usr/tmp/nm??????
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\*pas(1),
\*pcc(1),
\*pld(1),
a.out(4),
ar(4).
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
.TP 9
``\*pnm:  name:  cannot open''
if
.I name
cannot be read.
.PP
.TP 9
``\*pnm:  name:  bad magic''
if
.I name
is not an appropriate common object file.
.PP
.TP 9
``\*pnm:  name:  no symbols''
if the symbols have been stripped from
.IR name .
'\" \%W\%
.\"	@(#)nm.1	5.2 of 5/18/82
