.TH STSTAT 1
.SH NAME
ststat \- report synchronous terminal facilities status
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ststat\^
[ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Ststat\^
prints certain information about synchronous terminal facilities.
The information that is displayed is controlled by
.IR options :
.PP
.PD 0
.TP 12
.B \-a
Use all print
.IR options .
(This is shorthand notation for
.BR \-g ,
.BR \-l ,
.BR \-p ,
and
.BR \-t .)
.TP
.BI \-c " corefile\^"
Use the file
.I corefile\^
in place of
.BR /dev/kmem .
.TP
.B \-g
Print information about gen paramaters.
(Number of synchronous lines,
number of printer ports,
number of terminal ports,
number of message headers,
and sizes of receive and transmit buffer areas.)
.TP
.B \-l
Print information about synchronous lines.
(For each synchronous line,
whether or not the protocol script is running and
whether or not it has established communications with a controller on the line.)
.TP
.BI \-n " namelist\^"
The argument will be taken as the name of an alternate
.I namelist\^
.RB ( /unix
is the default).
.TP
.B \-p
Print printer port status information.
(For each assigned printer port,
give the assigned path name and the synchronous line number and device code
for the assigned printer.)\ 
If none of the print
.I options\^
.BR \-a ,
.BR \-g ,
.BR \-l ,
or
.B \-t
are specified,
.B \-p
is supplied as a default.
.TP
.B \-t
Print terminal port status information.
(For each active terminal port,
give the path name of the terminal device and
tell whether an open is waiting to be assigned to a terminal,
open to an active terminal,
or open to a device that has hung up.)
.PE
.SH FILES
.ta \w'/dev/kmem   'u
/dev	searched to find terminal (``tty'') names
.br
/dev/kmem	memory
.br
/unix	system namelist
.SH SEE ALSO
st(1M),
st(7).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PD 0
.TP
Can't read system namelist.
.br
Unable to find system name entries in the
.I namelist\^
file.
.TP
No synchronous terminal lines in \fInamelist\fP.
.br
Synchronous terminals are not configured in the system in the
.I namelist\^
file.
.TP
Can't open \fIcorefile\fP.
.br
Unable to open the specified
.I corefile\^
file.
.TP
Can't read \fIcorefile\fP.
.br
A read failed on the
.I corefile\^
file.
.TP
/dev/?????
.br
The name of an active terminal port could not be found in the
.B /dev
directory.
.PD
.SH BUGS
Things can change while
.I ststat\^
is running;
the picture it gives is only a close apporoximation to reality.
.\"	@(#)ststat.1	5.2 of 5/18/82
