.TH TROUBLE 1
.SH NAME
trouble \- log a trouble report
.SH SYNOPSIS
trouble
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I trouble
command is a front end for the Piscataway
Change Management Tracking System
(\s-1CMTS\s+1).
It is used to log trouble reports on, or request enhancements to the
U\s-1NIX\s+1 System.
Trouble reports will be forwarded to Piscataway via
.IR uucp (1C),
where they are transformed into Modification Requests
(\s-1MR\s+1s).
.PP
The command will prompt for the following mandatory fields:
.PP
.RS
.PD 0
.TP "\w'Date required:  'u"
Name:
The originator's name
(F. M. Last, F. Last, or First Last);
(3 to 6 letter \s-1ID\s+1, if they are in the \fBnames\fP file)
.TP
Location:
The external or internal mailing address
.TP
Phone:
The telephone number (aaaa, aaa-bbb-cccc, 8aaa-bbbb, or
aaa-bbb-cccc xdddd)
.TP
Type:
\fBsw\fP (software), \fBhdw\fP (hardware), \fBdoc\fP (documentation),
\fBenh\fP (enhancement), \fBunk\fP (unknown)
.TP
System:
The product under discussion (usually \fBunix\fP)
.TP
Machine:
The \s-1CPU\s+1 on which the trouble was found;
\fBna\fP if not applicable
.TP
Release:
The product release number;
\fBna\fP if not applicable
.TP
Severity:
\fB1\fP (out of commission, no circumvention),
\fB2\fP (severity 1 if not fixed by due date (mo/da/yr)),
\fB3\fP (needed), \fB4\fP (can be deferred)
.TP
Date required:
The due date for a severity \fB2\fP trouble report
.TP
Trouble Area:
The command or area in which the trouble was found
.TP
Abstract:
A one-line summary of the problem
.TP
Description:
The exact description of the problem;
.IR ed (1)
is the entry mechanism, so an \fBa\fP (append) must first
be typed.
Once the description has been entered and edited,
a \fBw\fP (write) followed by a \fBq\fP (quit) is required.
Since
.I nroff\^
is used to format these reports, all
examples can be enclosed within the \s-1\fB.ES\fP\s+1 and \s-1\fB.EE\fP\s+1
formatter macros that are supplied by
.IR trouble .
In addition, any backslashes should be entered using the \fB\ee\fP
construct.
.RE
.PD
.PP
A response of \fB?\fP will cause the expected format of the response
to be displayed.
.PP
Unless the description states otherwise, the trouble
report may be selected to appear in the
\fI\s-1MINI-SYSTEM NEWSLETTER\s+1\fP\^.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP "\w'/usr/lib/trouble/instruct  'u"
/usr/lib/trouble/tr.a
archived trouble reports
.TP
/usr/lib/trouble/instruct
instructions
.TP
/usr/lib/trouble/trsh
trouble report shell
.TP
/usr/lib/trouble/trxmit
re-transmission shell
.TP
/usr/lib/trouble/names
letter \s-1ID\s+1 data base
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
uucp(1C).
.\"	@(#)trouble.1	5.2 of 5/18/82
