.TH MM 5
.SH NAME
mm \- the \s-1MM\s+1 macro package for formatting documents
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mm
[ options ] [ files ]
.PP
.B "nroff \-mm"
[ options ] [ files ]
.PP
.B "nroff \-cm"
[ options ] [ files ]
.sp 1v
.B mmt
[ options ] [ files ]
.PP
.B "troff \-mm"
[ options ] [ files ]
.PP
.B "troff \-cm"
[ options ] [ files ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This package provides a formatting capability for a
very wide variety of documents.
It is the standard package used by the
.SM BTL
typing pools and
documentation centers.
The manner in which a document is typed in and edited
is essentially independent of whether the document
is to be eventually formatted at a terminal or is to be phototypeset.
See the references below for further details.
.PP
The
.B \-mm
option causes
.I nroff
and
.IR troff (1)
to use the non-compacted version of the macro package,
while the
.B \-cm
option
results in the use of the compacted version, thus speeding up
the process of loading the macro package.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP "\w'/usr/lib/macros/cmp\f3.\fP[nt]\f3.\fP[dt]\f3.\fPm    'u"
/usr/lib/tmac/tmac\f3.\fPm
pointer to the non-compacted version of the package
.TP
/usr/lib/macros/mm[nt]
non-compacted version of the package
.TP
/usr/lib/macros/cmp\f3.\fP[nt]\f3.\fP[dt]\f3.\fPm
compacted version of the package
.TP
/usr/lib/macros/ucmp\f3.\fP[nt]\f3.\fPm
initializers for the compacted version of the package
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.tr ~
.PD 0
mm(1), mmt(1), nroff(1), troff(1).
.PP
.I "\s-1MM\s+1\-Memorandum Macros\^"
by D.~W. Smith and J.~R. Mashey.
.PP
.I "Typing Documents with \s-1MM\s+1\^"
by D.~W. Smith and E.~M. Piskorik.
.PD
.br
.tr ~~
.\"	@(#)mm.5	5.2 of 5/18/82
