.TH MOSD 5
.SH NAME
mosd \- the \s-1OSDD\s+1 adapter macro package for formatting documents
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B osdd
[ options ] [ files ]
.PP
.B "mm \-mosd"
[ options ] [ files ]
.PP
.B "nroff \-mm \-mosd"
[ options ] [ files ]
.PP
.B "nroff \-cm \-mosd"
[ options ] [ files ]
.sp 1v
.B "mmt \-mosd"
[ options ] [ files ]
.PP
.B "troff \-mm \-mosd"
[ options ] [ files ]
.PP
.B "troff \-cm \-mosd"
[ options ] [ files ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \s-1OSDD\s+1 adapter macro package is a tool used
in conjunction with the
.SM MM
macro
package to prepare Operations Systems Deliverable Documentation.
Many of the \s-1OSDD\s+1 Standards
are different than the default format provided by
.SM MM\*S.
The \s-1OSDD\s+1 adapter package
sets the appropriate
.SM MM
options for automatic production of the \s-1OSDD\s+1
Standards.
The \s-1OSDD\s+1 adapter package also generates the correct
.SM OSDD
page headers and footers, heading styles, Table of Contents format,
etc.
.PP
.SM OSDD
document (input) files are prepared with the
.SM MM
macros.
Additional information which must be given at the beginning of the
document file is specified by the following string definitions:
.RS
.nf
\&.ds H1 document-number
\&.ds H2 section-number
\&.ds H3 issue-number
\&.ds H4 date
\&.ds H5 rating
.fi
.RE
.PP
The
.I document-number
should be of the standard 10 character format.
The words ``Section'' and ``Issue'' should not be
included in the string definitions;
they will be supplied automatically when the document is printed.
For example:
.RS
.nf
\&.ds H1 \s-1OPA\s+1\-1\s-1P\s+1\&135\-01
\&.ds H2 4
\&.ds H3 2
.fi
.RE
automatically produces
.RS
.nf
\s-1OPA\s+1\&-1\s-1P\s+1\&135-01
Section 4
Issue 2
.fi
.RE
as the document page header.
Quotation marks are not used in string definitions.
.PP
If certain information is not to be included in a page header,
then the string is defined as null; e.g.,
.RS
.nf
\&.ds H2
.fi
.RE
means that there is no
.IR section-number .
.PP
The \s-1OSDD\s+1 Standards require that the
.I "Table of Contents"
be numbered
beginning with
.IR "Page 1" .
By default, the first page of text will be numbered
.IR "Page 2" .
If the
.I "Table of Contents"
has more than one page, for example
.IR n ,
then either
.BI \-rP n+1
must be included as a command line option or
.B "\&.nr P n"
must be included in the document file.
For example, if the
.I "Table of Contents"
is four pages then use
.B \-rP5
on the command line or
.B "\&.nr\ P\ 4"
in the document file.
.PP
The
.SM OSDD
Standards require that certain information such as the document
.I rating
appear on the
.I "Document Index"
or on the
.I "Table of Contents"
page if
there is no index.
By default, it is assumed that an index has been
prepared separately.
If there is no index, the following must be included in the document file:
.RS
.nf
\&.nr Di 0
.fi
.RE
This will ensure that the necessary information is included on the
.I "Table of Contents"
page.
.PP
The \s-1OSDD\s+1 Standards require that all numbered figures be placed at the
end of the document.
The
.B .Fg
macro is used to produce full
page figures.
This macro produces a blank page with the appropriate header,
footer, and figure caption.
Insertion of the actual figure on
the page is a manual operation.
The macro usage is
.RS
.nf
\&.Fg page-count "figure caption"
.fi
.RE
where
.I page-count
is the number of pages required for a multi-page figure (default 1 page).
.PP
Figure captions are produced by the
.B \&.Fg
macro using the
.BR \&.\s-1BS\s+1 / .\s-1BE\s+1
macros.
Thus the
.BR \&.\s-1BS\s+1 / .\s-1BE\s+1
macros are also not available for users.
The
.B \&.Fg
macro cannot be used within the document unless
the final
.B \&.Fg
in a series of figures is followed by a
.B \&.\s-1SK\s+1
macro to force
out the last figure page.
.PP
The
.I "Table of Contents"
for
.SM OSDD
documents (see Figure 4 in Section 4.1 of
the \s-1OSDD\s+1 Standards) is produced with:
.RS
.nf
\&.Tc
System Type
System Name
Document Type
\&.Td
.fi
.RE
The
.BR \&.Tc / .Td
macros are used instead of the
.B "\&.\s-1TC\s+1"
macro from
.SM MM\*S.
.PP
By default, the adapter package causes the
.SM \fBNOTICE\fP
disclosure statement
to be printed.
The
.B \&.\s-1PM\s+1
macro
may be used to suppress the
.SM \fBNOTICE\fP
or to replace it
with the
.SM \fBPRIVATE\fP
disclosure statement as follows:
.PP
.RS
.PD 0
.TP 10
\&.\s-1PM\s+1
none printed
.TP 10
\&.\s-1PM P\s+1
.SM PRIVATE
printed
.TP 10
\&.\s-1PM N\s+1
.SM NOTICE
printed (default)
.PD
.RE
.PP
The
.SM
.B \&.P
macro is used for paragraphs.
The
.B Np
register is set automatically
to indicate the paragraph numbering style.
It is very important that the
.SM
.B \&.P
macro be used correctly.
All paragraphs (including those immediately
following a
.SM
.B \&.H
macro) must use a
.SM
.B \&.P
macro.
Unless there is a
.SM
.B \&.P
macro,
there will not be a number generated for the paragraph.
Similarly, the
.SM
.B \&.P
macro should not be used for text which is not a paragraph.
The
.SM
.B \&.SP
macro may be appropriate for these cases,
e.g., for ``paragraphs'' within a list item.
.PP
The page header format is produced automatically in accordance with
the
.SM OSDD
Standards.
The
.SM OSDD
Adapter macro package uses the
.SM
.B \&.TP
macro for this purpose.
Therefore the
.SM
.B \&.TP
macro normally available in
.SM MM
is not available
for users.
.SH FILES
/usr/lib/tmac/tmac.osd
.SH SEE ALSO
.PD 0
mm(1), mmt(1), nroff(1), troff(1), mm(5).
.PP
.I "\s-1MM\s+1\-Memorandum Macros\^"
by D. W. Smith and J. R. Mashey.
.PP
.IR "Operations Systems Deliverable Documentation Standards\^" ,
June 1980.
.PD
.\"	@(#)mosd.5	5.2 of 5/18/82
