'\" t
.TH GLOSSARY 1
.SH NAME
glossary \- definitions of common UNIX system terms and symbols
.SH SYNOPSIS
[
.B help
]
.B glossary
[
.I term
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The UNIX System \fIhelp\fP Facility command
.I glossary
provides definitions of common technical terms and symbols.
.PP
Without an argument,
.I glossary
displays a menu screen listing the terms and symbols that are currently 
included in
.IR glossary .
A user may choose one of the terms or may exit to the shell by typing
.B q
(for ``quit'').
When a term is selected, its definition is retrieved and displayed.
By selecting the appropriate menu choice, the list of terms and symbols
can be redisplayed.
.PP
A term's definition may also be requested directly from shell level (as shown above),
causing a definition to be retrieved and the list of terms
and symbols not to be displayed.
Some of the symbols must be escaped if requested at shell level in order
for the facility to understand the symbol.  The following is a table
which list the symbols and their escape sequence.
.sp 1
.RS
.TS
l c
c l.
SYMBOL	ESCAPE SEQUENCE
\&"\|"	\e"\e"
\&'\|'	\e'\e'
\&.	\e\e.
\&[\|]	\e\e[\e\e]
\&`\|`	\e`\e`
\&#	\e#
\&&	\e&
\&\(**	\e\(**
\&\e	\e\e\e\e
\&|	\e|
.TE
.RE
.PP
From any screen in the facility, a user may execute a command via the
shell (\fBsh(1)\fP) by typing a \fB!\fP and the command to be executed.
The screen will be redrawn if the command that was executed
was entered at a first level prompt.
If entered at any other prompt level, only the prompt will be redrawn.
.PP
By default, the \fIhelp\fP facility scrolls the data that is
presented to the user.  If a user prefers to have
the screen clear before printing the data (non-scrolling), 
a variable must be defined in the user's \fB.profile\fP file called
\fBSCROLL\fP.  The variable \fBSCROLL\fP must be set to \fBno\fP and exported
for non-scrolling to occur.
If the user later decides that scrolling is desired, the variable \fBSCROLL\fP
must be set to \fByes\fP or deleted from the user's \fB.profile\fP file.
.PP
Further information on the UNIX System \fIhelp\fP Facility can be found on
the
.IR help (1),
.IR usage (1),
.IR starter (1),
and
.IR locate (1)
manual pages.
.SH SEE ALSO
help(1),
locate(1),
usage(1),
starter(1).
.SH WARNINGS
.PP
If the \fBTERM\fP variable is not set in the user's \fB.profile\fP file,
then \fBTERM\fP will default to the terminal value type \fB450\fP 
( a hardcopy terminal ).  For a list of valid terminal types, refer to
\fIterm(5)\fP in the UNIX Programmer's Manual.
The \fIhelp\fP facility assumes that tabs are set on the user's terminal.
