.TH HELPADM 1
.SH NAME
helpadm \- make changes to the 
.I help
database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B helpadm
.SH DESCRIPTION
The UNIX System \fIhelp\fP Facility Administration command 
.I helpadm
allows UNIX administrators and command developers to define the
content of 
.I help
for their specific commands and to monitor use of the 
.I help
facility.  
.I helpadm
can only be executed by login root, login bin, or a login that is a
member of group bin.
.PP
.I helpadm
prints a menu of 3 types of 
.I help
data which can be modified, and 2 choices relating to monitoring use
of the 
.I help
facility.  The five choices are:
.PD 0
.TP 11
- modify \fIstartup\fP data
.TP 
- add, modify, or delete a \fIglossary\fP term
.TP
- add, modify, or delete command data (description, options, 
examples, and keywords)
.TP
- prevent monitoring use of the \fIhelp\fP facility (login root 
and login bin only)
.TP 
- permit monitoring use of the \fIhelp\fP facility (login root and
login bin only)
.PD
.PP
The user may make one of the above choices by entering its
corresponding letter (given in the menu), or
may exit to the shell by typing \fBq\fP (for "quit").
.PP
If one of the first three choices is chosen, then the user is
prompted for additional information; specifically, which 
.I startup
screen, 
.I glossary
term definition, or command is to be modified.  The user may also be
prompted for information to identify whether the changes to the
database are additions, modifications, or deletions.  If the user is
modifying existing data or adding new data, then they are prompted
to make the appropriate modifications/additions.  If the user is
deleting a 
.I glossary
term or a command from the database, then they
must respond affirmatively to the next query in order for the
deletion to be done.  In any case, before the user's changes are
final, they must respond affirmatively when asked whether they are
sure they want their requested database changes to be done.
.PP
By default, 
.I helpadm
will put the user into 
.I ed
to make additions/modifications to 
database information.  If the user wishes to be put into a different
editor, then they should set the EDITOR variable in their
environment to the desired editor, and then export EDITOR.
.PP
If the user chooses to monitor/prevent monitoring use of the
.I help
facility, no further interaction occurs between the user and the 
.I help
administration utilities.
.SH SEE ALSO
help(1)
.SH WARNINGS
When the UNIX System is delivered to a customer, /etc/profile
exports the LOGNAME variable.  If /etc/profile has been changed so
that LOGNAME is not exported, then the options to monitor/prevent monitoring
use of the 
.I help
facility may not work properly.
