'\" t
.TH HELP 1
.SH NAME
help \- UNIX System \fIhelp\fP Facility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "  help"
.PP
[
.B help
]
.B starter
.PP
[
.B help
]
.B usage
[
.B \-d
]
[
.B \-e
]
[
.B \-o
]
[
.I command_name
]
.PP
[
.B help
]
.B locate
[
.I keyword1
[
.I keyword2
] ... ]
.PP
[
.B help
]
.B glossary
[
.I term
]
.PP
.B "  help"
.B arg1
[
.I arg2 ...
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The UNIX System \fIhelp\fP Facility provides on-line assistance for
UNIX system users.
.PP
Without arguments,
.I help
prints a menu of available on-line assistance commands with a
short description of their functions.
The commands and their descriptions are:
.sp 1
.RS
.TS
l l
l l.
COMMAND	DESCRIPTION
\fBstarter\fP	information about the UNIX system for the 
	beginning user
\fBusage\fP	UNIX system command usage information
\fBlocate\fP	locate UNIX system commands using function-related 
	keywords
\fBglossary\fP	definitions of UNIX system technical terms
.TE
.RE
.PP
The user may choose one of the above commands by entering its
corresponding letter (given in the menu), or may exit to
the shell by typing
.B q
(for ``quit'').
.PP
With arguments,
.I help
directly invokes the named on-line assistance command, bypassing
the
initial
.I help
menu.
The commands
.IR starter ,
.IR locate ,
.IR usage ,
and
.IR glossary ,
optionally preceded by the word \fIhelp\fP,
may also be specified at shell level.
When executing 
.I glossary 
from shell level some of the symbols listed in the glossary must be escaped
to be understood by the facility.  For a list of symbols refer
to the
.IR glossary (1)
manual page.
.PP
From any screen in the facility, a user may execute a command via the
shell (\fBsh(1)\fP) by typing a \fB!\fP and the command to be executed.
The screen will be redrawn if the command that was executed
was entered at a first level prompt.
If entered at any other prompt level, only the prompt will be redrawn.
.PP
By default, the \fIhelp\fP facility scrolls the data that is
presented to the user.  If a user prefers to have
the screen clear before printing the data (non-scrolling), 
a variable must be defined in the user's \fB.profile\fP file called
\fBSCROLL\fP.  The variable \fBSCROLL\fP must be set to \fBno\fP and exported
for non-scrolling to occur.
If the user later decides that scrolling is desired, the variable \fBSCROLL\fP
must be set to \fByes\fP or deleted from the user's \fB.profile\fP file.
.PP
If the first argument to \fIhelp\fP is different from the four
mentioned above, \fIhelp\fP
assumes information is being requested in the form of the previous
\fBhelp\fP command (often referred to as the SCCS \fBhelp\fP
command, and now obsolete).
The arguments may be either message numbers (which normally appear in
parentheses following messages) or command names, of one of the 
following types:
.TP \w'type1\ \ 'u
type1
Begins with non-numerics, ends in numerics.  The non-numeric
prefix is usually an abbreviation for the program or set of routines
which produced the message (e.g., \fBge3\fP for message 3 from the \fIget\fP command).
.TP
type2
Does not contain numerics (as a command, such as \fBget\fP)
.TP
type3
Is all numeric (e.g., \fB212\fP)
.PP
Further information on the
.IR starter ,
.IR locate ,
.IR usage ,
and
.IR glossary
commands may be found on the
.IR starter (1),
.IR locate (1),
.IR usage (1),
and
.IR glossary (1)
manual pages, respectively.
.SH SEE ALSO
starter(1),
locate(1),
usage(1),
glossary(1).
.SH WARNINGS
.PP
If the \fBTERM\fP variable is not set in the user's \fB.profile\fP file,
then \fBTERM\fP will default to the terminal value type \fB450\fP 
( a hardcopy terminal ).  For a list of valid terminal types, refer to
\fIterm(5)\fP in the UNIX Programmer's Manual.
The \fIhelp\fP facility assumes that tabs are set on the user's terminal.
