.TH LOCATE 1
.SH NAME
locate \- identify a UNIX system command using keywords
.SH SYNOPSIS
[
.B help
]
.B locate
.PP
[
.B help
]
.B locate
[
.I keyword1
[
.I keyword2 
] ... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I locate
command is part of the UNIX System \fIhelp\fP Facility,
and provides on-line assistance with identifying
UNIX system commands.
.PP
Without arguments,
the initial
.I locate
screen is displayed from which the user may enter keywords functionally
related to the action of the desired UNIX system
commands they wish to have identified.
A user may enter keywords and receive a list of UNIX system commands whose
functional attributes match those in the keyword list, or may
exit to the shell by typing \fBq\fP (for ``quit'').
For example, if you wish to print the contents of a file, enter the
keywords ``print'' and ``file''.
.I locate
would then print the names of all commands related to these
keywords.
.PP
Keywords may also be entered directly from the shell,
as shown above.
In this case, the initial screen is not displayed,
and the resulting command list is printed.
.PP
More detailed information on a command in the list
produced by
.I locate
can be obtained by accessing the
.I usage
module of the UNIX System \fIhelp\fP Facility.
Access is made by entering the appropriate
menu choice after the command list is displayed.
.PP
From any screen in the facility, a user may execute a command via the
shell (\fBsh(1)\fP) by typing a \fB!\fP and the command to be executed.
The screen will be redrawn if the command that was executed
was entered at a first level prompt.
If entered at any other prompt level, only the prompt will be redrawn.
.PP
By default, the \fIhelp\fP facility scrolls the data that is
presented to the user.  If a user prefers to have
the screen clear before printing the data (non-scrolling), 
a variable must be defined in the user's \fB.profile\fP file called
\fBSCROLL\fP.  The variable \fBSCROLL\fP must be set to \fBno\fP and exported
for non-scrolling to occur.
If the user later decides that scrolling is desired, the variable \fBSCROLL\fP
must be set to \fByes\fP or deleted from the user's \fB.profile\fP file.
.PP
Further information on the UNIX System \fIhelp\fP Facility
can be found on the
.IR help (1),
.IR usage (1),
.IR starter (1),
and
.IR glossary (1)
manual pages.
.SH SEE ALSO
help(1),
usage(1),
starter(1),
glossary(1).
.SH WARNINGS
.PP
If the \fBTERM\fP variable is not set in the user's \fB.profile\fP file,
then \fBTERM\fP will default to the terminal value type \fB450\fP 
( a hardcopy terminal ).  For a list of valid terminal types, refer to
\fIterm(5)\fP in the UNIX Programmer's Manual.
The \fIhelp\fP facility assumes that tabs are set on the user's terminal.
