.TH STARTER 1
.SH NAME
starter \- information about the UNIX system for beginning users
.SH SYNOPSIS
[
.B help
]
.B starter
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The UNIX System \fIhelp\fP Facility command
.I starter
provides five categories of information
about the UNIX system to assist new users.
.PP
The five categories are:
.PD 0
.TP 11
- commands a new user should learn first
.TP
- UNIX system documents important for beginners
.TP
- education centers offering UNIX system courses
.TP
- local environment information
.TP
- on-line teaching aids installed on the UNIX system
.PD
.PP
The user may choose one of the above categories by entering
its corresponding letter (given in the menu), or may
exit to the shell by typing
.B q
(for ``quit'').
When a category is chosen, the user will receive one or more
pages of information pertaining to it.
.PP
From any screen in the facility, a user may execute a command via the
shell (\fBsh(1)\fP) by typing a \fB!\fP and the command to be executed.
The screen will be redrawn if the command that was executed
was entered at a first level prompt.
If entered at any other prompt level, only the prompt will be redrawn.
.PP
By default, the \fIhelp\fP facility scrolls the data that is
presented to the user.  If a user prefers to have
the screen clear before printing the data (non-scrolling), 
a variable must be defined in the user's \fB.profile\fP file called
\fBSCROLL\fP.  The variable \fBSCROLL\fP must be set to \fBno\fP and exported
for non-scrolling to occur.
If the user later decides that scrolling is desired, the variable \fBSCROLL\fP
must be set to \fByes\fP or deleted from the user's \fB.profile\fP file.
.PP
Further information on the UNIX System \fIhelp\fP Facility can be
found on the
.IR help (1),
.IR usage (1),
.IR locate (1),
and
.IR glossary (1)
manual pages.
.SH SEE ALSO
help(1),
locate(1),
usage(1),
glossary(1).
.SH WARNINGS
.PP
If the \fBTERM\fP variable is not set in the user's \fB.profile\fP file,
then \fBTERM\fP will default to the terminal value type \fB450\fP 
( a hardcopy terminal ).  For a list of valid terminal types, refer to
\fIterm(5)\fP in the UNIX Programmer's Manual.
The \fIhelp\fP facility assumes that tabs are set on the user's terminal.
