.TH USAGE 1
.SH NAME
usage \- retrieve a command description and usage examples
.SH SYNOPSIS
[
.B help
]
.B usage
[
.B \-d
]
[
.B \-e
]
[
.B \-o
]
[
.I command_name
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The UNIX System \fIhelp\fP Facility command 
.I usage
retrieves information about UNIX system commands.
With no argument,
.I usage
displays a menu screen prompting the user for the name of a
command,
or allows the user to retrieve a list of commands supported
by
.I usage.
The user may also exit to the shell by typing \fBq\fP (for ``quit'').
.PP
After a command is selected,
the user is asked to choose among a description of the command,
examples of typical usage of the command, or descriptions of the command's
options.  Then, based on the user's request, the appropriate information
will be printed.
.PP
A command name may also be entered at shell level as an
argument to \fIusage\fP.  To receive information on the command's
description, examples, or options, the user may use the \fB-d\fP, \fB-e\fP,
or \fB-o\fP options respectively. (The default option is \fB-d\fP.)
.PP
From any screen in the facility, a user may execute a command via the
shell (\fBsh(1)\fP) by typing a \fB!\fP and the command to be executed.
The screen will be redrawn if the command that was executed
was entered at a first level prompt.
If entered at any other prompt level, only the prompt will be redrawn.
.PP
By default, the \fIhelp\fP facility scrolls the data that is
presented to the user.  If a user prefers to have
the screen clear before printing the data (non-scrolling), 
a variable must be defined in the user's \fB.profile\fP file called
\fBSCROLL\fP.  The variable \fBSCROLL\fP must be set to \fBno\fP and exported
for non-scrolling to occur.
If the user later decides that scrolling is desired, the variable \fBSCROLL\fP
must be set to \fByes\fP or deleted from the user's \fB.profile\fP file.
.PP
Further information on the UNIX System \fIhelp\fP Facility can be found
on the
.IR help (1),
.IR locate (1),
.IR starter (1),
and
.IR glossary (1)
manual pages.
.SH SEE ALSO
help(1), locate(1), starter(1), glossary(1).
.SH WARNINGS
.PP
If the \fBTERM\fP variable is not set in the user's \fB.profile\fP file,
then \fBTERM\fP will default to the terminal value type \fB450\fP 
( a hardcopy terminal ).  For a list of valid terminal types, refer to
\fIterm(5)\fP in the UNIX Programmer's Manual.
The \fIhelp\fP facility assumes that tabs are set on the user's terminal.
