.TH SYS3B 2 "3B20S only"
.SH NAME
sys3b \- 3B20S specific system calls
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B void sys3b (cmd, arg1[, arg2])
.br
.B int cmd, arg1, arg2;
.SH DESCRIPTION
This system call provides for 3B20S specific actions.
Most require super-user privileges as the effects
can be dangerous.
The
.I cmd\^
values
available are:
.TP 5
.B 1
Reboot the processor.
This call causes an immediate entry into the
bootstrap code.
.TP 5
.B 2
System \fIprintf\fP interface.
.I Arg1
is taken as a pointer to a null terminated string
to be copied into the operating system circular
print buffer.
.TP 5
.B 3
Attach to an address translation buffer.
.TP 5
.B 4
System namelist interface.
The value of
.I arg1
is used to return the address of various
data elements in the system.
.TP 5
.B 5
Override for system Maintenance Reset Function (\s-1MRF\s+1) action.
If
.I arg1
is non-zero, it is taken as the indicator
for handling a processor \s-1MRF\s+1.
If zero, the current setting is returned.
.TP 5
.B 6
Send a Processor Recovery Message (\s-1PRM\s+1).
.I Arg1
is used as a pointer to a 16 byte string
to be converted to a \s-1PRM\s+1 and transmitted
to the Emergency Action Interface (\s-1EAI\s+1).
.TP 5
.B 7
Modify the System Status Register (\s-1SSR\s+1).
Bits set in
.I arg1
are set or cleared in the \s-1SSR\s+1
if
.I arg2
is non-zero or zero, respectively.
.TP 5
.B 8
Read \s-1EAI\s+1 Input Parameter Buffer.
.I Arg1
is used as a location in user space
where the current Input Parameter Buffer is to be placed.
.TP 5
.B 9
Change default Field Test Set utility-id.
.B 10
Change the floating point flag bits in the
extended processor status word.
.SH SEE ALSO
fts(1M),
ipb(1M),
prm(1M),
reboot(1M),
setmrf(1M),
ssr(1M),
in the
.IR "U\s-1NIX\s+1 System Administrator's Manual" .
.\"	@(#)sys3b.2	5.2 of 5/18/82
