.TH X25ALNK 3C
.SH NAME
x25alnk, x25ilnk \- attach or install a \s-1BX\s+1.25 link
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <x25lib.h>
.PP
.B int x25alnk (linkid, devname, lineno, modname, flags)
.B int linkid, lineno;
.B char \(**devname, \(**modname;
.B unsigned flags;
.PP
.B int x25ilnk (linkid, pktsize, flags)
.B int linkid, pktsize;
.B unsigned flags;
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I X25alnk\^
is used to attach a
.SM BX\*S.25
logical link specified by
.IR linkid
to a level 2 device whose name is
.IR devname
by making the necessary connections between
data structures.
.PP
.I Linkid\^
is the identifier for the link data structure
to be used in the operating system.
This identifier
can be thought of as the connector between
.I x25ipvc\^
calls and the
.I x25alnk\^
call for the physical link on which the channels are
multiplexed.  An example of a link identifier is 1.
.PP
.I Devname\^
is the name of the physical device running the interpreter and
script for this link, e.g.,
.BR /dev/kmc0 .
.PP
.I Lineno\^
is the physical line number (range 0-7) for a logical link
on a physical unit, e.g., 4.
.PP
.I Modname\^
is the name of the synchronous modem control device.
If the
.SM LNKMOD
flag is specified, the standard modem
control functions performed for the line are to raise data
terminal ready and request to send.
An example of
.I modname\^
is
.BR /dev/kdm0 .
.PP
.I Flags\^
specifies the options for the attach call, e.g.,
.SM LNKBACK
requests
.I devname\^
as a backup device.
The permissible
.I flags\^
bit settings for attach are:
.RS
.TP \w'\s-1LNKBACK\s+1\ \ 'u
.PD 0
.SM LNKMOD
\fImodname\fP
specified.
.TP
.SM LNKBACK
attach a backup rather a primary device.
.PD
.RE
.PP
.I X25ilnk\^
is used to initialize a link; more precisely, to start
the level 2 protocol in the associated device
and to start the level 3 protocol in the \s-1UNIX\s+1 System driver
for the link specified by
.IR linkid .
.PP
.I Pktsize\^
is the packet size to be used for level 3 data packets.
.I Pktsize\^
must be a number that is a power of 2 between 16 and 1024 inclusive.
The default packet size is 128.
The
.SM LNKPKT
flag must be raised to set a non-default size.
.PP
.I Flags\^
specifies the options for the initialization call, e.g.,
.SM LNKISB
requests the B address.
The permissible
.I flags\^
bit settings for initialization are:
.RS
.TP \w'\s-1LNKBACK\s+1\ \ 'u
.PD 0
.SM LNKPKT
packet size specified
.TP
.SM LNKISB
tell interpreter line is an X.25 B address; default is A.
.TP
.SM LNKBACK
initialize the backup device.
.TP
.SM LNKFAST
the device speed is greater than 9.6
.SM KB\*S.
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
ioctl(2),
open(2),
stat(2),
perror(3C),
x25clnk(3C),
x25hlnk(3C).
.br
x25pvc(1M), nc(7), vpm(7), x25(7) in the
.IR "\s-1UNIX\s+1 System Administrator's Manual" .
.br
.IR "Operations Systems Network Protocol Specification: BX.25 Issue 2" ,
Bell Laboratories.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PD 0
.TP \w'\s-1ELNKMCO\s+1\ \ 'u
.SM ELNKPKT
packet size specified is illegal.
.TP
.SM ELNKNCO
network control device \fIopen\fP failed; check \fIerrno\fP.
.TP
.SM ELNKNCI
network control device \fIioctl\fP failed; check \fIerrno\fP.
.TP
.SM ELNKDS
\fIstat\fP of physical device failed; check \fIerrno\fP.
.TP
.SM ELNKDNC
file associated with device name not a character special device.
.TP
.SM ELNKMCO
modem control device \fIopen\fP failed; check \fIerrno\fP.
.TP
.SM ELNKMCI
modem control device \fIioctl\fP failed; check \fIerrno\fP.
.TP
.SM ELNKLNO
device line number illegal.
.PD
.\"	@(#)x25alnk.3c	5.2 of 5/18/82
