.TH X25HLNK 3C
.SH NAME
x25hlnk, x25dlnk \- halt or detach a \s-1BX\s+1.25 link
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <x25lib.h>
.PP
.B int x25hlnk (linkid, flags)
.B int linkid;
.B unsigned flags;
.PP
.B int x25dlnk (linkid, flags)
.B int linkid;
.B unsigned flags;
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I X25hlnk\^
is used to halt a link; more precisely, to stop
the level 2 protocol in the associated device
and to stop the level 3 protocol in the \s-1UNIX\s+1 System driver
for the link specified by
.IR linkid .
If a backup device has been attached and started, the level 2
protocol on the backup will also be stopped.
.PP
.I X25dlnk
is used to detach a
.SM BX\*S.25
logical link specified by
.IR linkid .
This removes the logical connections which were
made by
.IR x25alnk .
.PP
.I Linkid\^
is the identifier for the link data structure
which is used in the operating system.
This identifier was set up by the
.I x25alnk
subroutine call.
.PP
.I Flags\^
specifies the options for the halt or detach call.
.PP
The permissible
.I flags\^
bit settings for halt is:
.RS
.TP \w'\s-1LNKBACK\s+1\ \ 'u
.SM LNKBACK
halt only the level 2 protocol
on the backup device. The level 3
protocol must not be running on
this backup device.
.RE
.PP
The permissible
.I flags\^
bit settings for detach is:
.RS
.TP \w'\s-1LNKBACK\s+1\ \ 'u
.SM LNKBACK
detach a backup rather than a primary device.
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
ioctl(2),
open(2),
stat(2),
perror(3C),
x25alnk(3C),
x25clnk(3C).
.br
x25pvc(1M), nc(7), vpm(7), x25(7) in the
.IR "\s-1UNIX\s+1 System Administrator's Manual" .
.br
.IR "Operations Systems Network Protocol Specification: BX.25 Issue 2" ,
Bell Laboratories.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PD 0
.TP \w'\s-1ELNKDNC\s+1\ \ 'u
.SM ELNKNCO
network control device \fIopen\fP failed; check \fIerrno\fP.
.TP
.SM ELNKNCI
network control device \fIioctl\fP failed; check \fIerrno\fP.
.TP
.SM ELNKDS
\fIstat\fP of physical device failed; check \fIerrno\fP.
.TP
.SM ELNKDNC
file associated with device name not a character special device.
.\"	@(#)x25hlnk.3c	5.2 of 5/18/82
