.TH X25IPVC 3C
.SH NAME
x25ipvc, x25rpvc \- install or remove a \s-1PVC\s+1 on a link
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <x25lib.h>
.PP
.B "int x25ipvc (slotname, chno, linkid, flags)"
.B char \(**slotname;
.B int chno, linkid;
.B unsigned flags;
.PP
.B int x25rpvc (slotname)
.B char \(**slotname;
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I X25ipvc\^
may be used
to install a
.SM BX\*S.25
Permanent Virtual Circuit (\s-1PVC\s+1)
on a specified
.SM BX\*S.25
interface
.RI ( link ).
If
.I slotname\^
is currently connected (but removable) this
connection is removed and the new connection is made
to the logical channel
.I chno\^
on the link specified by
.IR linkid .
.PP
.I Slotname\^
is a path name that specifies a
.SM BX\*S.25
minor device (slot), e.g.,
.BR /dev/x25s12 .
.PP
.I Chno\^
is the \s-1BX\s+1.25 level 3 logical channel number associated with
the \s-1PVC\s+1, e.g., 3.
.I chno\^
must be in the range 1 to 4095
and must not be currently in use
for any other
.SM BX\*S.25
minor device associated with that link.
.PP
.I Linkid\^
is the identifier for the link data structure to be
used in the operating system. This identifier can be
thought of as the connector between
.I x25ipvc\^
calls and the
.I x25alnk\^
call for the physical link on which the channels
are multiplexed. An example of a link identifier is 1.
.PP
.I Flags\^
contains settings for specifying \s-1PVC\s+1 install options;
permissible \s-1PVC\s+1
.I flags\^
bit settings are:
.RS
.TP \w'PVCSESS\ \ 'u
.PD 0
.SM PVCSESS
Session connect/disconnect packets used.
.TP
.SM PVCREST
.SM RESET
in-order/out-of-order responded to.
.TP
.SM PVCNONE
No establishment protocol used.
.PD
.RE
.PP
.I X25rpvc\^
is used to remove the association between
.SM BX\*S.25
minor device
.I slotname\^
and the link and channel to which it is currently connected.
The command will fail if the slot is open, if packets are
waiting to be transmitted, or if there are unacknowledged
packets outstanding.
.SH SEE ALSO
ioctl(2),
open(2),
stat(2),
perror(3C).
.br
nc(7), vpm(7), x25(7)
in the
.IR "\s-1UNIX\s+1 System Admninistrator's Manual" .
.br
.IR "Operations Systems Network Protocol Specification: BX.25 Issue 2" ,
Bell Laboratories.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PD 0
.TP \w'\s-1EPVCNCO\s+1\ \ 'u
.SM EPVCNP
no (or multiple) setup protocol specified
(one of \s-1PVCSESS\s+1,
\s-1PVCREST\s+1,
or \s-1PVCNONE\s+1 must be in \fIflags\fP argument).
.TP
.SM EPVCNCO
network control device \fIopen\fP failed; check \fIerrno\fP.
.TP
.SM EPVCNCI
network control device \fIioctl\fP failed; check \fIerrno\fP.
.TP
.SM EPVCSS
\fIstat\fP of slot (\s-1PVC\s+1) name failed; check \fIerrno\fP.
.TP
.SM EPVCSNC
file associated with \fIslotname\fP not a character special device.
.PD
.\"	@(#)x25ipvc.3c	5.2 of 5/18/82
