.ig
	@(#)acctprc.1m	1.2	10/18/84
	@(#)Copyright (C) 1984 by National Semiconductor Corp.
..
.TH ACCTPRC 1M
.SH NAME
acctprc1, acctprc2 \- process accounting
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/lib/acct/acctprc1
[\^\fBctmp\fP\^]
.PP
.B /usr/lib/acct/acctprc2
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Acctprc1\^
reads input in the form described by
.IR acct (4),
adds login names corresponding to user
.SM ID\*Ss,
then writes for each process an
.SM ASCII
line giving
user
.SM ID\*S,
login name,
prime
.SM CPU
time (tics),
non-prime
.SM CPU
time (tics),
and mean memory size (in memory segment units).
If
.B ctmp
is given,
it is expected to contain a list of login sessions,
in the form described in
.IR acctcon (1M),
sorted by user
.SM ID
and login name.
If this file is not supplied,
it obtains login names from the password file.
The information in
.B ctmp
helps it distinguish among different login names that share the same user
.SM ID\*S.
.PP
.I Acctprc2\^
reads records in the form written by
.IR acctprc1 ,
summarizes them by user
.SM ID
and name,
then writes the sorted summaries to the standard output
as total accounting records.
.PP
These commands are typically used as shown below:
.PP
.RS
acctprc1 \|ctmp \|</usr/adm/pacct \|\(bv \|acctprc2 \|>ptacct
.RE
.SH FILES
/etc/passwd
.SH SEE ALSO
acct(1M),
acctcms(1M),
acctcom(1),
acctcon(1M),
acctmerg(1M),
acctsh(1M),
cron(1M),
fwtmp(1M),
runacct(1M),
acct(2),
acct(4),
utmp(4).
.SH BUGS
Although it is possible to distinguish among login names
that share user
.SM ID\*Ss
for commands run normally,
it is difficult to do this for those commands run from
.IR cron (1M),
for example.
More precise conversion can be done by faking login sessions
on the console via the
.I acctwtmp\^
program in
.IR acct (1M).
.SH CAVEAT
A memory segment of the mean memory size is a unit of measure
for the number of bytes in a logical memory segment on a particular
processor.
For example,
on a NSC SYS32 this measure would be in
512-byte units.
.\"	@(#)acctprc.1m	6.2 of 9/2/83
