.TH CHECKALL 1M
.SH NAME
checkall \- faster file system checking procedure
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/checkall
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I checkall
procedure
is a prototype and must be modified to suit local conditions.
The following will serve as an example:
.PP
.RS
.nf
# check the root file system by itself
fsck \|/dev/dsk/0s0

# dual fsck of drives 0 and 1
dfsck \|/dev/rdsk/0s[12345] \|\- \|/dev/rdsk/1s1
.fi
.RE
.PP
In the above example
(where
.B /dev/rdsk/1s1
is 320K blocks and
.B /dev/rdsk/0s[12345]
are each 65K or less),
a previous sequential
.I fsck
took 19 minutes.
The
.I checkall
procedure takes 11 minutes.
.PP
.I Dfsck
is a
program that permits an operator to interact with two
.IR fsck (1M)
programs
at once.
To aid in this,
.I dfsck
will print the file system name for each
message to the operator.
When answering a question from
.IR dfsck ,
the operator must prefix the response with a
.B 1
or a
.B 2
(indicating that the answer refers to the first or second file system group).
.PP
Due to the file system load balancing required for dual checking, the
.IR dfsck
[see \f2fsck\f1(1M)]
command should always be executed
through the
.I checkall
shell procedure.
.PP
In a practical sense,
the file systems are divided as follows:
.PP
.RS
dfsck \|file_systems_on_drive_0 \|\- \|file_systems_on_drive_1
.br
dfsck \|file_systems_on_drive_2 \|\- \|file_systems_on_drive_3
.br
.B " \| \|. \|. \|."
.RE
.PP
A three-drive system can be handled by this more concrete example
(assumes two large file systems per drive):
.PP
.RS
dfsck \|/dev/dsk/3s1 \|/dev/dsk/0s[14] \|\- \|/dev/dsk/1s[14] \|/dev/dsk/3s4
.RE
.PP
Note that the first file system on drive 3 is first in the
.I filesystems1
list and is last in the
.I filesystems2
list assuring that references to that drive will not overlap
at execution time.
.SH WARNINGS
.IP 1. 3
Do not use \fIdfsck\fP to check the \fIroot\fP file system.
.IP 2. 3
On a check that requires a scratch file (see
.B \-t
above),
be careful not to use the same temporary file for the two groups
(this is sure to scramble the file systems).
.IP 3. 3
The
.I dfsck
procedure is useful only if the system is set up for multiple
physical I/O buffers.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
dfsck(1M), fsck(1M).
.br
.sp
\f2Setting Up the \s-1UNIX\s+1 System\fR in the
.IR "\s-1UNIX\s+1 System V Administrator Guide" .
.\"	@(#)checkall.1m	6.2 of 9/2/83
