.tr ~
.TH CONFIG 1M
.SH NAME
config \- configure a \s-1UNIX\s+1 System
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/config
[
.B \-t
]
[
.B \-l
file ] [
.B \-c
file ] [
.B \-m
file ] dfile
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Config\^
is a program that takes a description of a
.SM UNIX
system and
generates two files.
One file provides information regarding the interface between
the hardware and device handlers.
The other file is a C program defining the configuration tables
for the various devices on the system.
.PP
The
.B \-l
option specifies the name of the hardware interface file;
.B low.s
is the default name.
.PP
The
.B \-c
option specifies the name of the configuration table file;
.B conf.c
is the default name.
.PP
The
.B \-m
option specifies the name of the file that contains
all the information regarding supported devices;
.B /etc/master
is the default name.
This file is supplied with the
.SM UNIX
system and should
.I not\^
be modified unless the user
.I fully\^
understands its construction.
.PP
The
.B \-t
option requests a short table of major device numbers for
character and block type devices.
This can facilitate the creation of special files.
.PP
The user must supply
.IR dfile ;
it must contain device information
for the user's system.
This file is divided into two parts.
The first part contains physical device specifications.
The second part contains system-dependent information.
Any line with an asterisk (\f3\(**\fP) in column 1 is a comment.
.PP
All configurations are assumed to have the following devices:
.PP
.RS
one Signetics 2651 (for the system console)
.br
one Intel 8253 programmable interval timer
.RE
.PP
with standard interrupt vectors and addresses.
These two devices
.I "must not\^"
be specified in
.IR dfile .
.SS First Part of \f2dfile\fP
Each line contains four or five fields, delimited by blanks and/or tabs
in the following format:
.PP
.RS
devname    vector    address    bus    number
.RE
.PP
where
.I devname\^
is the name of the device (as it appears in the
.B /etc/master
device table),
.I vector\^
is
the interrupt vector location (decimal),
.I address\^
is the device address (hex),
.I bus\^
is the bus request level (4 through 7),
and
.I number\^
is the number (decimal) of devices associated with the
corresponding controller;
.I number\^
is optional, and if omitted, a default
value which is the maximum value for that controller is used.
.PP
There are certain drivers that may be provided with the system,
that are actually
.I "pseudo-device\^"
drivers;
that is, there is no real hardware associated with the driver.
Drivers of this type are identified on their respective manual entries.
When these devices are specified in the description file, the
interrupt
.IR vector ,
device
.IR address ,
and
.I bus\^
request level must all be zero.
.if \n()s .bp
.SS Second Part of \f2dfile\fP
The second part contains three different types of lines.
Note that
.I all\^
specifications of this part
.IR "are required" ,
although their order is arbitrary.
.PP
.ti -3n
1.
.I "Root\^/\^pipe\^/\^dump device specification\^"
.PP
Three lines of three fields each:
.PP
.RS
\f3root\fP	devname	minor
.br
\f3pipe\fP	devname	minor
.br
\f3dump\fP	devname	minor	dumplo
.RE
.PP
where
.I minor\^
is the minor device number (in octal).
.PP
.ti -3n
2.
.I "Swap device specification\^"
.PP
One line that contains five fields as follows:
.PP
.RS
\f3swap\fP	devname	minor	swplo	nswap
.RE
.PP
where
.I swplo\^
is the lowest disk block (decimal) in the swap area and
.I nswap\^
is the number of disk blocks (decimal) in the swap area.
.PP
.ti -3n
3.
.I "Parameter specification\^"
.PP
Several lines of two fields each as follows
.RI ( number\^
is decimal):
.RS
.PP
.PD 0
.TP 15
.B buffers
number
.TP
.B inodes
number
.TP
.B files
number
.TP
.B mounts
number
.TP
.B swapmap
number
.TP
.B calls
number
.TP
.B procs
number
.TP
.B maxproc
number
.TP
.B texts
number
.TP
.B clists
number
.TP
.B hashbuf
number
.TP
.B physbuf
number
.TP
.B mesg
0 or 1
.TP
.B sema
0 or 1
.TP
.B shmem
0 or 1
.PD
.RE
.SH EXAMPLE
To configure a
.SM SYS\*S-32
system with the following devices:
.RS
.nf
one disk drive controller
one tape drive controller
one serial i/o board with 8 lines
one line printer
.fi
.RE
We must also specify the following parameter information:
.RS
.nf
root device is a dc (drive 1, section 0)
pipe device is a dc (drive 1, section 0)
swap device is a dc (drive 1, section 1)
~~~~~~~with a swplo of 6000 and an nswap of 2000
dump device is a tc (drive 0)
number of buffers is 35
number of processes is 150
maximum number of processes per user \s-1ID\s+1 is 25
number of mounts is 8
number of inodes is 120
number of files is 120
number of calls is 30
number of texts is 35
number of character buffers is 150
number of swapmap entries is 50
messages are to be included
semaphores are to be included
.fi
.RE
.ne 8
The actual system configuration would be specified as follows:
.RS
.nf
.ta 12n 20n 30n 38n 46n
dc	3	0d00000	5
tc	4	0d00200	5
lp	12	0fff800	4
sio	14	0a00000	4
root	dc	10
pipe	dc	10
swap	dc	11	6000	2000
dump	tc	0	0
\(** Comments may be inserted in this manner
buffers	35
procs	150
maxproc	25
mounts	8
inodes	120
files	120
calls	30
texts	35
clists	150
swapmap	50
msg	1
sema	1
.fi
.RE
.DT
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 15
/etc/master
default input master device table
.TP
low\f3.\fPs
default output hardware interface file
.TP
conf\f3.\fPc
default output configuration table file
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
sysdef(1M),
master(4).
.br
.I "Setting up the \s-1UNIX\s+1 System"
in the 
.IR "\s-1UNIX\s+1 System V Administrator Guide" .
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Diagnostics are routed to the standard output and are
self-explanatory.
.SH BUGS
The
.B \-t
option does not know about devices that have aliases.
.tr ~~
.\"	@(#)config.ns.1m	5.2 of 5/18/82
