.TH CPSET 1M
.SH NAME
cpset \- install object files in binary directories
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cpset
.B [-o]
object directory [mode owner group]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Cpset
is used to install the specified
.I object
file in the given
.IR directory .
The
.IR mode ,
.IR owner ,
and
.IR group ,
of the destination file may be specified on the command line.
If this data is omitted, two results are possible:
.TP
\&
If the user of
.I cpset
has administrative permissions (that is, the user's numerical
.SM ID
is less than 100), the following defaults are provided:
.IP "" 10
mode \- 0755
.IP "" 10
owner \- bin
.IP "" 10
group \- bin
.br
.TP 5
\&
If the user is not an administrator, the default, owner, and group of the
destination file will be that of the invoker.
.P
An optional argument of
.B \-o
will force
.I cpset
to move
.I object
to 
\f3\s-1OLD\s+1\f2object\fR
in
the destination directory before installing the new object.
.P
For example:
.P
.IP
cpset echo /bin 0755 bin bin
.IP
cpset echo /bin
.IP
cpset echo /bin/echo
.P
All the examples above have the same effect (assuming the user
is an administrator).
The file
.B echo
will be copied into
.B /bin
and will be given
.B 0755,
.B bin,
.B bin
as the mode, owner, and group, respectively.
.P
.I Cpset
utilizes the file
.B /usr/src/destinations
to determine the final destination of a file.
The locations file contains pairs of pathnames separated by spaces
or tabs.
The first name is the "official" destination (for example:
.BR /bin/echo ).
The second name is the new destination.
For example, if
.I echo
is moved from
.B /bin
to
.BR /usr/bin ,
the entry in
.B /usr/src/destinations
would be:
.P
.IP
/bin/echo	/usr/bin/echo
.P
When the actual installation happens,
.I cpset
verifies that the "old" pathname does not exist.
If a file exists at that location,
.I cpset
issues a warning and continues.
This file does not exist on a distribution tape; it is used by sites
to track local command movement.
The procedures used to build the source will be responsible for defining the
"official" locations of the source.
.SS "Cross Generation"
The environment variable
.SM
.B ROOT
will be used to locate the destination file (in the form
.BR $\s-1ROOT\s+1/usr/src/destinations ).
This is necessary in the cases where cross generation is being done
on a production system.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
install(1M), make(1), mk(8).
