.TH DCOPY 1M
.SH NAME
dcopy \- copy file systems for optimal access time
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/dcopy
.RB [ \-s X]
.RB [ \-a n]
.RB [ \-d ]
.RB [ \-v ]
.RB [ \-f fsize[ : isize]]
inputfs outputfs 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Dcopy
copies file system
.I inputfs
to
.IR outputfs .
.I Inputfs
is the existing file system;
.I outputfs
is an appropriately sized file system, to hold the reorganized result.
For best results
.I inputfs
should be the raw device and
.I outputfs
should be the block device.
.I Dcopy
should be run on unmounted file systems
(in the case of the root file system, copy to a new pack).
With no arguments,
.I dcopy
copies files from
.I inputfs
compressing directories by removing vacant entries, and spacing consecutive
blocks in a file by the optimal rotational gap.
The possible options are
.TP 10
.BI \-s X
supply device information for creating an optimal
organization of blocks in a file.
The forms of
.I X
are the same as the 
.B \-s
option of
.IR fsck (1M).
.TP 10
.BI \-a n
place the files not accessed in
.I n
days after the free blocks of the 
destination file system
(default for
.I n
is 7).
If no
.I n 
is specified then no movement occurs.
.TP 10
.B \-d
leave order of directory entries as is
(default is to move sub-directories to the beginning of directories).
.TP 10
.B \-v
currently reports how many files were processed, and how big
the source and destination freelists are.
.TP 10
.BI \-f fsize \fR[\fP: isize \fR]\fP
specify the
.I outputfs
file system and inode list sizes (in blocks).
If the option (or
\fB:\fP\fIisize\fP)
is not given, the values from the
.I inputfs
are used.
.P
.I Dcopy
catches interrupts and quits and reports on its progress.
To terminate
.IR dcopy
send a quit signal, and
.I dcopy
will no longer catch interrupts or quits.
.ig
.I Dcopy
also attempts to modify its command line arguments so its 
progress can be monitored with
.IR ps (1).
..
.SH SEE ALSO
fsck(1M),
mkfs(1M),
ps(1).
.\"	@(#)dcopy.1m	6.5 of 9/2/83
