.TH DCUTEST 1M
.SH NAME
dcutest \- disk formatter and test program
.SH DESCRIPTION
\f2Dcutest\fR is a comprehensive stand-alone disk formatter
and test program.  This program must be used to format new disks
and to write headers on each drive in the system.  Numerous commands
are also available to perform a variety of functional tests
on the drives.
.P
The first thing \f2dcutest\fR does is attempt to identify the
disk drives connected to the system, and configure itself
accordingly.  If this is successful, each disk type, along with
its parameters, will be displayed.  If this fails, the program
will indicate on which drives the failure occurred.  \fBDcutest\fR
will also indicate which drives have missing headers.
.P
The formatting commands available are:
.P
.DS 1
   ua                     Initiate the auto identification and configuration
                          sequence for the currently selected disk unit.

   uc c<n1>t<n2>s<n3>     Set the header parameters for the currently
                          selected disk unit.

                            n1 - number of cylinders
                            n2 - number of tracks/cylinder
                            n3 - number of sectors/track

   xh                     Install a header on the currently selected
                          disk unit.

   x<l><u>                Format the currently selected disk unit from
                          cylinder <l> to cylinder <u>.

   xr<n>                  Set the maximum number of formatting retries
                          to <n>.

   xi<n>                  Set the interleave formatting value.

   xp<z><nz>              Set the PLOZ and PLONZ formatting values for the
                          currently selected disk unit.
.P
For more information on \f2dcutest\fR, and on other commands and
functions available, consult the \f2NS16000 SYS16 System Manual\fR.
.SH FILES
/stand/dcutest
/usr/include/sys/disk.h
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\f2NS16000 SYS16 System Manual\fR, chapter 4, section 4.4.1, which
describes the \f2dcutest\fR program in detail.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Self-explanatory.
.\"	@(#)dcutest.1m	5.2 of 10/15/84
