.TH DISKUSG 1M
.SH NAME
diskusg - generate disk accounting data by user ID
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B diskusg
[\^options\^] [\^files\^]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Diskusg
generates intermediate disk accounting information
from data in
.I files,
or the standard input if omitted.
.I Diskusg
output lines on the standard output, one per user, in the following format:
.SP 2
.IP "" 10
.I "uid login #blocks"
.P
where
.TP 12
uid -
the numerical user ID of the user.
.TP 12
login -
the login name of the user; and
.TP 12
#blocks -
the total number of disk blocks
allocated to this user.
.P
.I Diskusg
normally reads only the i-nodes
of file systems for disk accounting.
In this case,
.I files
are the special filenames of these devices.
.P
.I Diskusg
recognizes the following options:
.TP 12
.B -s
the input data
is already in
.I diskusg
output
format.
.I Diskusg
combines
all lines for a single user
into a single line.
.TP 12
.B -v
verbose.  Print a list on standard error
of all files that are charged to no one.
.TP 12
.BI -i " fnmlist "
ignore the data on those file systems whose
file system name is in
.I fnmlist.
.I Fnmlist
is a list of file system names separated
by commas or enclose within quotes.
.I Diskusg
compares each name in this list with the file system
name stored in the volume ID [see
.I volcopy(1M)].
.TP 12
.BI -p " file "
use
.I file
as the name of the password file to generate
login names.
.B /etc/passwd
is used by default.
.TP 12
.BI -u " file "
write records to
.I file
of files that are charged to no one.
Records consist of the special file name,
the i-node number, and the user ID.
.P
The output of
.I diskusg
is normally the input to
.I acctdisk
[see
.IR acct (1M)]
which generates total
accounting records that can be
merged with other accounting records.
.I Diskusg
is normally run in
.I dodisk
[see
.IR acctsh (1M)].
.SH EXAMPLES
The following will generate daily disk accounting information:

for i in /dev/rp00 /dev/rp01 /dev/rp10 /dev/rp11; do
.br
	diskusg $i > dtmp.`basename $i` &
.br
done
.br
wait
.br
diskusg -s dtmp.* | sort +0n +1 | acctdisk > disktacct
.br
.SH FILES
.TP 20
/etc/passwd
used for user ID to login name conversions
.SH SEE ALSO
acct(1M), acctsh(1M), acct(4)
.\"     @(#)diskusg.1m	1.2 of 9/2/83
