.TH ERRPT 1M
.SH NAME
errpt \- process a report of logged errors
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B errpt
[ options ] 
[ files ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Errpt\^
processes data collected by the error logging
mechanism
.RI [ errdemon (1M)]
and generates a report of that data.
The default report is a summary of all errors posted in the files named.
Options apply to all files and are described below.
If no files are specified,
.I errpt\^
attempts to use
.B /usr/adm/errfile
as
.IR file .
.PP
A summary report notes the options that may
limit its completeness, records the time stamped on
the earliest and latest errors encountered, and
gives the total number of errors of one or more types.
Each device summary contains the total number
of unrecovered errors, recovered errors,
errors unabled to be logged,
I/O operations on the device,
and miscellaneous activities that occurred on the device.
The number of times that
.I errpt\^
has difficulty reading input data
is included as read errors.
.PP
Any detailed report contains, in addition to specific error information,
all instances of the error logging process being started
and stopped, and any time changes [via
.IR date (1)]
that took
place during the interval being processed.
A summary of each error type included in the report is
appended to a detailed report.
.PP
A report may be limited to certain records in the
following ways:
.PP
.TP 16
.BI \-s " date\^"
Ignore all records posted earlier than
\fIdate\fR,
where
.I date\^
has the form \fImmddhhmmyy\fP\^,
consistent in meaning with the
.IR date (1)
command.
.TP
.BI \-e " date\^"
Ignore all records posted later than
.IR date ,
whose form is as described above.
.TP
.BR \-a	
Produce a detailed report that includes all error types.
.TP
.BI \-d " devlist\^"
A detailed report is limited to 
data about devices given in
.IR devlist ,
where
.I devlist\^
can be one of two forms:
a list of device identifiers separated from one another
by a comma, or a list of device identifiers enclosed in
double quotes
and separated from one another by a comma and/or more spaces.
.I Errpt\^
is familiar with the common form of identifiers
(e.g., DC, TC;
see Section\ 7 of this volume).
For the NSC SYS32 processor,
the (block) devices for which errors
are logged are
.SM DC,
and
.SM TC.
Additional identifiers are
.B int
and
.B mem
which include detailed reports of stray-interrupt and
memory-parity type errors, respectively.
.TP
.BI \-p " n\^"
Limit the size of a detailed report to
.I n\^
pages.
.TP
.B \-f
In a detailed report, limit the reporting of block device errors to
unrecovered errors.
.SH FILES
/usr/adm/errfile	     default error file
.SH SEE ALSO
date(1),
errdead(1M),
errdemon(1M),
errfile(4).
.\"	@(#)errpt.1m	6.2 of 9/2/83
