.TH FSCK 1M
.SH NAME
fsck, dfsck \- file system consistency check and interactive repair
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/fsck
.RB [ \-y ]
.RB [ \-n ]
.RB [ \-s \s-1X\s+1]
.RB [ \-\s-1S\s+1 \s-1X\s+1]
.RB [ \-t " file]"
.RB [ \-q ]
.RB [ \-\s-1D\s+1 ]
.RB [ \-f ]
[\|file-systems\|]
.PP
.B /etc/dfsck
[ options1 ]
filsys1
.B .\|.\|.
.B \-
[ options2 ]
filsys2
.B .\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.SS Fsck
.I  Fsck\^
audits and interactively repairs inconsistent conditions
for \s-1UNIX\s+1 system files. 
If the file system is consistent then the number of files, number of blocks
used, and number of blocks free are reported.
If the file system is inconsistent the operator is prompted for concurrence
before each correction is attempted.
It should be noted that most corrective actions will result in some loss
of data.
The amount and severity of data lost may be determined from the diagnostic
output.
The default action for each consistency correction
is to wait for the operator to respond \fByes\fP or \fBno\fP.
If the operator does not have write permission 
.I fsck\^
will default to a 
.BR "\-n " action.
.PP
.I Fsck\^
has more consistency checks than
its predecessors
.IR check ,
.IR dcheck ,
.IR fcheck ,
and
.I icheck\^
combined.
.PP
The following options are interpreted by
.IR fsck .
.TP 6
.B  \-y
Assume a yes response to all questions asked by 
.IR fsck .
.TP 6
.B  \-n
Assume a no response to all questions asked by 
.IR fsck ;
do not open the file system for writing.
.TP 6
.BR \-s \fIX
Ignore the actual free list and (unconditionally) reconstruct a new
one by rewriting the super-block of the file system.  
The file system should be unmounted while this is done; if this
is not possible, care should be taken that the system is quiescent
and that it is rebooted immediately afterwards.
This precaution is necessary so that the old, bad, in-core copy
of the superblock will not continue to be used, or written on the file system.
.IP
The
.BR \-s \fIX
option allows for creating an optimal free-list organization.
The following forms of
.I X\^
are supported for the following devices:
.sp
.nf
	\-s3 (\s-1RP\s+1\&03)
	\-s4 (\s-1RP\s+1\&04, \s-1RP\s+1\&05, \s-1RP\s+1\&06)
	\-sBlocks-per-cylinder\fB:\fRBlocks-to-skip (for anything else)
.fi
.IP "" 6
If 
.I X\^
is not given,
the values used when the file system was created
are used.
If these values were not specified, then the value
.IB 400 : 7
is used.
.TP 6
.BR \-S \fIX
Conditionally reconstruct the free list. This option
is like
.BR \-s \fIX
above except that the free list is rebuilt only
if there were no discrepancies discovered in the
file system. Using
.B \-S
will force a no response to all questions asked
by
.IR fsck .
This option is useful for forcing free list reorganization
on uncontaminated file systems.
.TP 6
.B \-t
If
.I fsck\^
cannot obtain enough memory to keep its tables,
it uses a scratch file. If the \f3\-t\fP option is
specified, the file named in the next argument
is used as the scratch file, if needed. Without the
.BR "\-t " flag,
.I fsck\^
will prompt the operator for the name of the
scratch file. The file chosen should not be on the
file system being checked, and if it is not
a special file or did not already exist, it is
removed when
.I fsck\^
completes.
.TP 6
.B \-q
Quiet
.I fsck.\^
Do not print size-check messages in Phase 1.
Unreferenced
.BR fifos
will silently be removed. 
If
.I fsck
requires it, counts in the superblock will be automatically
fixed and the free list salvaged.
.TP 6
.B \-D
Directories are checked for bad blocks.
Useful after system crashes.
.TP 6
.B \-f
Fast check.
Check block and sizes (Phase 1) and check the free list (Phase 5).
The free list will be reconstructed (Phase 6) if it is necessary.
.PP
If no
.I file-systems\^
are specified,
.I fsck\^
will read a list of default file systems from
the file
.BR /etc/checklist .
.PP
.ne 10
Inconsistencies checked are as follows:
.RS
.PD 0
.TP 6
1.
Blocks claimed by more than one i-node or the free list.
.TP 6
2.
Blocks claimed by an i-node or the free list outside the range of the file system.
.TP 6
3.
Incorrect link counts.
.TP 6
4.
Size checks:
.IP "" 12
Incorrect number of blocks.
.br
Directory size not 16-byte aligned.
.TP 6
5.
Bad i-node format.
.TP 6
6.
Blocks not accounted for anywhere.
.TP 6
7.
Directory checks:
.IP "" 12
File pointing to unallocated i-node.
.br
I-node number out of range.
.TP 6
8.
Super Block checks:
.IP "" 12
More than 65536 i-nodes.
.br
More blocks for i-nodes than there are in the file system.
.TP 6
9.
Bad free block list format.
.TP 6
10.
Total free block and/or free i-node count incorrect.
.RE
.PD
.PP
Orphaned files and directories (allocated but unreferenced) are,
with the operator's concurrence, reconnected by
placing them in the 
.B lost+found
directory, if the files are nonempty.
The user will be notified if the file or directory is empty or not.
If it is empty,
.I fsck
will silently remove them.
.I Fsck
will force the reconnection of nonempty directories.
The name assigned is the i-node number.
The only restriction
is that the directory 
.B lost+found
must preexist
in the root of the file system being checked and
must have empty slots in which entries can be made.
This is accomplished by making 
.BR lost+found ,
copying a number of files to the directory, and then removing them
(before
.I
fsck
is executed).
.PP
Checking the raw device is almost always faster and should be used
with everything but the
.I root
file system.
.PP
.SS Dfsck
.I Dfsck
allows two file system checks on two different drives simultaneously.
.I options1
and
.I options2
are used to pass options to
.I fsck
for the two sets of file systems.
A
.B \-
is the separator between the file system groups.
.PP
The
.I dfsck
program permits an operator to interact with two
.IR fsck (1M)
programs
at once.
To aid in this,
.I dfsck
will print the file system name for each
message to the operator.
When answering a question from
.IR dfsck ,
the operator must prefix the response with a
.B 1
or a
.B 2
(indicating that the answer refers to the first or second file system group).
.PP
Do not use
.I dfsck
to check the
.I root
file system.
.br
.ne 5v
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 21
/etc/checklist
contains default list of file systems to check.
.TP 21
/etc/checkall
optimizing 
.I dfsck
shell file.
.PD
.bp
.SH "SEE ALSO"
checkall(1M),
clri(1M),
ncheck(1M),
checklist(4),
fs(4).
.br
.sp
\f2Setting Up the \s-1UNIX\s+1 System\fR in the
.IR "\s-1UNIX\s+1 System V Administrator Guide" .
.SH BUGS
I-node numbers for
.B .
and
.B .\|.
in each directory should be checked for validity.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The diagnostics produced by 
.I fsck\^
are intended to be self-explanatory.
.\"	@(#)fsck.1m	6.2 of 9/2/83
