.TH FUSER 1M
.SH NAME
fuser \- identify processes using a file or file structure
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/fuser
.RB [ \|\-ku\| ]
files
.RB [ \|\-\| ]
.RB [\|[ \|\-ku\| "] files\|]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Fuser
lists the process \s-1ID\s+1s of the processes
using the \fIfiles\fP specified as arguments.
For block special devices, all processes using any file on that device are
listed.
The process \s-1ID\s+1 is followed by
.BR c ,
.B p
or
.B r
if the process is using the
file as its current directory, the parent of its current directory
(only when in use by the system), or its \fBr\fPoot directory, respectively.
If the 
.B \-u
option is specified, the login name, in parentheses,
also follows the process \s-1ID\s+1.
In addition, if the
.B \-k
option is specified, the 
.SM
.B \s-1SIGKILL\s+1
signal is sent to each process.
Only the super-user can terminate another user's process
[see 
.IR kill (2)].
Options may be respecified between groups of files.
The new set of options replaces the old set, with a lone dash canceling any
options currently in force.
.PP
The process \s-1ID\s+1s are printed as a single line on the standard output,
separated by spaces and terminated with a single new line.
All other output is written on standard error.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
fuser \-ku /dev/dsk/1s?
will terminate all processes that are preventing disk drive one from being
unmounted if typed by the super-user,
listing the process \s-1ID\s+1 and login name
of each as it is killed.
.TP
fuser \-u /etc/passwd
will list process \s-1ID\s+1s and login names
of processes that have the password
file open.
.TP
fuser \-ku /dev/dsk/1s? \-u /etc/passwd
will do both of the above examples in a single command line.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP \w'/dev/kmem\ \ \ \ 'u
/unix
for namelist
.TP
/dev/kmem
for system image
.TP
/dev/mem
also for system image
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
mount(1M),
ps(1),
kill(2),
signal(2).
.\"	@(#)fuser.1m	6.2 of 9/2/83
