.TH INSTALL 1M
.SH NAME
install \- install commands
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/install
.RB  [ \-c " dira]"
.RB  [ \-f " dirb]"
.RB  [ \-i ]
.RB  [ \-n " dirc]"
.RB  [ \-o ]
.RB  [ \-s ]
file [dirx .\|.\|.]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Install\^
is a command most commonly used in ``makefiles''
(see
.IR make (1))
to install a
.I file\^
(updated target file) in a specific place within a file system.
Each
.I file\^
is installed by copying it into the appropriate directory, thereby retaining the
mode and owner of the original command.
The program prints messages telling the user exactly what files it is
replacing or creating and where they are going.
.PP
If no options or directories
.RI ( dirx " .\|.\|.)"
are given,
.I install\^
will search
a set of default directories
.RB ( /bin ,
.BR /usr/bin ", " /etc ", " /lib ,
and
.BR /usr/lib ,
in that order)
for a file with the same name as 
.IR file .
When the first occurrence is found,
.I install\^
issues a message saying that it is overwriting that file with
.IR file ,
and proceeds to do so.
If the file is not found, the program states this and exits without
further action.
.PP
If one or more directories
.RI ( dirx " .\|.\|.)"
are specified after
.IR file ,
those directories will be searched before the directories specified
in the default list.
.PP
The meanings of the options are:
.PP
.RS 5
.TP 15
.BI \-c "  dira\^"
Installs a new command (\fIfile\fP\^) in the directory specified by
.IR dira ,
only if it is
not
found.
If it is found,
.I install\^
issues a message saying that the file already
exists, and exits without overwriting it.
May be used alone or with the
.B \-s
option.
.TP 15
.BI \-f "  dirb\^"
Forces
.I file\^
to be installed in given directory, whether or not one already exists.
If the file being installed does not already exist, the mode and owner
of the new file will be set to \fB755\fP and \fBbin\fP, respectively.
If the file already exists, the mode and owner will be that of the
already existing file.
May be used alone or with the
.B \-o
or
.B \-s
options.
.TP 15
.B \-i
Ignores default directory list, searching only through the given directories
.RI ( dirx " .\|.\|.)."
May be used alone or with any other options other than
.B \-c
and
.BR \-f .
.TP 15
.BI \-n "  dirc\^"
If
.I file\^
is not found in any of the searched directories, it is put in the directory
specified in
.IR dirc .
The mode and owner of the new file will be set to \fB755\fP and \fBbin\fP, respectively.
May be used alone or with any other options other than
.B \-c
and
.BR \-f .
.TP 15
.B \-o
If
.I file\^
is found, this option saves the ``found'' file by copying it to
.BI \s-1OLD\s0 file\^
in the directory in which it was found.
This option is useful when installing a normally text busy file such as
.B /bin/sh
or
.BR /etc/getty ,
where the existing file cannot be removed.
May be used alone or with any other options other than
.BR \-c .
.TP 15
.B \-s
Suppresses printing of messages other than error messages.
May be used alone or with any other options.
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
cpset(1M),
make(1),
mk(8).
.\"	@(#)install.1m	6.2 of 9/2/83
