.TH MKPT 1M
.SH NAME
mkpt \- change the disk partition tables.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\f2Mkp\f1 is a stand-alone program that may be used to edit the drive
header in order to modify the origin and/or size of the
file system partitions on a drive.  The size of a partition is
specified in disk \fBsectors\fR, not file system blocks.
.P
\f2Mkpt\fR uses standard UNIX System V notation in identifying
disk partitions.  A partition is specified as \f3/dev/dsk/xsy\f1, where
x refers to the disk drive number and y refers to the disk
slice number.
.P
The program terminates when it receives a carriage return in
response to the prompt for a partition to modify.  Entering
a carriage return in response to the 'offset' or 'size' prompts
will cancel any action on that partition, leaving it unchanged.
Invalid input detected in any response will also result in
cancellation of any changes.
.P
To examine the partition table on drive 'n', enter '?n' in
response to the 'Disk' prompt.  Note:  if you get a message
warning that the unit needs a header (followed by an 'autoconfigure'
message), the partitions displayed will be default values for
the particular type of disk drive.  If this occurs, you will
need to fix the disk header (see the next paragraphs).  The '?' option
doesn't change the header on the disk.
.P
If you enter a disk partition for a drive with a bad header, the
program will warn you and then display a table of header parameters.
The first column contains the parameters actually found in the
drive's header block.  The second column displays the 'autoconfigure'
parameters which are dependent on the type of drive which the program
finds.  This display is shown when the disk magic
number (first parameter in the list) differs from the correct
autoconfigure value.
.P
If the header does have a bad magic number, you will need to write
the autoconfigure values out to the disk to establish the correct
magic number.  Note that the partition table is changed to the 
autoconfigure defaults in this case.  You can manually change the
partition table once the magic number has been corrected.  Occasionally,
transient errors will cause the program to think the header is bad.
If the 'Current header data' column seems correct, then it may suffice
to simply write that current data back out to the disk.  Step-by-step
questions allow you to write out the autoconfigure data, the current
header data, or to make no changes at all.
.P
If a partition is to be changed in size, the filesystem residing on that
partition should first be saved on tape, using the cpio utility.
Next, run \f2mkpt\fR and make the appropriate changes to the
partition table.  A new filesystem should then be built with
\f2mkfs\fR(1M).  After the new filesystem has been built, use the
cpio utility to restore the saved filesystem.
.SH FILES
/usr/include/sys/disk.h    disk header
.SH "SEE ALSO"
dcutest(1M)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Self-explanatory.
.\"	@(#)mkpt.1M      5.2 of 10/15/84
