.if t .ds ' \h@.05m@\s+4\v@.333m@\'\v@-.333m@\s-4\h@.05m@
.if n .ds ' '
.if t .ds ` \h@.05m@\s+4\v@.333m@\`\v@-.333m@\s-4\h@.05m@
.if n .ds ` `
.TH SAR 1M
.nh
.SH NAME
sa1, sa2, sadc \- system activity report package
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/lib/sa/sadc
[t n]
[\|ofile\|]
.PP
.B /usr/lib/sa/sa1
[t n]
.PP
.B /usr/lib/sa/sa2
.RB [ \-ubdycwaqvwprA ]
.RB [ \-s 
time\|]
.RB [ \-e
time\|]
.RB [ \-i
sec\|]
.SH DESCRIPTION
System activity data can be accessed at the special request
of a user
[see
.IR sar (1)]
and automatically on a routine basis as described here.
The operating system contains a number of
counters that are incremented as various system actions occur.
These include
.SM CPU
utilization counters,
buffer usage counters,
disk and tape
.SM I/O
activity counters,
.SM TTY
device
activity counters, switching
and system-call counters, file-access counters,
queue activity counters, and counters for interprocess communications.
.PP
.I Sadc
and
shell procedures,
.I sa1
and
.IR sa2 ,
are used to sample,
save, and process this data.
.PP
.IR Sadc ,
the data collector,
samples system data
.I n
times every
.I t
seconds and writes in binary format to
.I ofile
or to standard output.
If
.I t
and
.I n
are omitted,
a special record is written.
This facility is used at system boot time
to mark the time at which the counters restart from zero.
The
.BR /etc/rc
entry:
.RS
.sp
su sys \|\-c "/usr/lib/sa/sadc /usr/adm/sa/sa`date +%d`"
.sp
.RE
writes the special record to the daily data file
to mark the system restart.
.PP
The shell script
.IR sa1 ,
a variant of
.IR sadc ,
is used to collect and store data in binary file
.BI /usr/adm/sa/sa dd
where
.I dd
is the current day.
The arguments
.I t
and
.I n
cause records to be written
.I n
times at an interval of
.I t
seconds, or once if omitted.
The
.B /usr/spool/cron/crontabs/sys
entries
[see
.IR cron (1M)]:
.RS
.sp
0 \(** \(** \(** 0,6 /usr/lib/sa/sa1
.br
0 8\-17 \(** \(** 1\-5 /usr/lib/sa/sa1 1200 3
.br
0 18\-7 \(** \(** 1\-5 /usr/lib/sa/sa1
.sp
.RE
will produce records every 20 minutes during working hours and hourly
otherwise.
.PP
The shell script
.IR sa2 ,
a
variant of
.IR sar (1),
writes a daily report
in file
.BI /usr/adm/sa/sar dd\fR.\fP
The options are explained in
.IR sar (1).
The
.B /usr/spool/cron/crontabs/sys 
entry:
.PP
.RS
5 18 \(** \(** 1\-5 /usr/lib/sa/sa2 \-s 8:00 \-e 18:01 \-i 3600 \-A
.RE
.PP
will report important activities hourly during the working day.
.br
.ne 26
.PP
The structure of the binary daily data file
is:
.PP
.ta 3.0m +\w'struct sysinfo si;\ \ 'u +4
.nf
struct sa {
	struct sysinfo si;	/\(** see /usr/include/sys/sysinfo.h \(**/
	struct minfo mi;	/\(** defined in /usr/include/sys/sysinfo.h \(**/
	int  szinode;	/\(** current size of inode table  \(**/
	int  szfile;	/\(** current size of file table  \(**/
	int  szproc;	/\(** current size of proc table  \(**/
	int   szlckf;	/\(** current size of file record header table \(**/
	int   szlckr;	/\(** current size of file record lock table \(**/
	int  mszinode;	/\(** size of inode table  \(**/
	int  mszfile;	/\(** size of file table  \(**/
	int  mszproc;	/\(** size of proc table  \(**/
	int   mszlckf;	/\(** maximum size of file record header table \(**/
	int   mszlckr;	/\(** maximum size of file record lock table \(**/
	long  inodeovf;	/\(** cumulative overflows of inode table  \(**/
	long  fileovf;	/\(** cumulative overflows of file table  \(**/
	long  procovf;	/\(** cumulative overflows of proc table  \(**/
	time_t  ts;	/\(** time stamp  \(**/
	int   apstate;
	long  devio[\s-1NDEVS\s+1][4];		/\(** device unit information \(**/
#define \s-1IO_OPS\s+1	0	/\(** cumulative \s-1I\s+1/\s-1O\s+1 requests  \(**/
#define \s-1IO_BCNT\s+1	1	/\(** cumulative blocks transferred \(**/
#define \s-1IO_ACT\s+1	2	/\(** cumulative drive busy time in ticks  \(**/
#define \s-1IO_RESP\s+1	3	/\(** cumul. \s-1I\s+1/\s-1O\s+1 resp time in ticks since boot  \(**/
};
.fi
.SH FILES
.RI /usr/adm/sa/sa "dd	"
daily data file
.br
.RI /usr/adm/sa/sar "dd	"
daily report file
.br
.RB /tmp/sa . "adrfl	"
address file
.SH SEE ALSO
cron(1M),
sag(1G),
sar(1),
timex(1).
.\"	@(#)sar.1m	6.2 of 9/2/83
