.TH TRENTER 1M
.SH NAME
trenter \- enter a trouble report
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B trenter
.RB [ \-s ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Trenter
resides on any machine that must submit machine-readable trouble
reports to Customer Support.
It prompts the user for the data needed to enter the report, and allows for
correction of previously entered data, either
.IR in-line ,
or by invoking a text editor.
.I Trenter
also allows users to specify (in a file), default values for fields
that will likely remain constant across reports, such as name, address,
company name, etc.
In addition, facilities are provided to assist local administrators in
handling trouble report flow on their systems.
.SS "Fields and Values"
Trouble reports consist simply of fields and associated values.
Each field has a
.IR "field name" ,
by which it may be referenced.
When invoked,
.I trenter
prompts for values for the trouble report's fields.
The following table lists the prompts that are issued, along with their
corresponding field names.
All fields accept one line of input, except for the problem description,
which is a multi-line field, terminated with a line consisting of only ``.''.
The items marked with a star (\fB\(**\fP) are explained below.
.P
These first nine fields identify the originator of the report.
.P
.IP \(bu 5
Name (\s-1NAME\s+1) (\(**)
.IP \(bu 5
Company (\s-1CO\s+1) (\(**)
.IP \(bu 5
Phone (\s-1PHONE\s+1) (\(**)
.IP \(bu 5
Room Number (\s-1ROOM\s+1) (\(**)
.IP \(bu 5
Address (\s-1ADDR\s+1) (\(**)
.IP \(bu 5
City (\s-1CITY\s+1) (\(**)
.IP \(bu 5
State (\s-1STATE\s+1) (\(**)
.IP \(bu 5
Zip Code (\s-1ZIP\s+1) (\(**)
.IP \(bu 5
Country (\s-1COUNTRY\s+1) (\(**)
.P
These two fields are \s-1AT&T\s+1-assigned numbers to identify the customer
and the specific site.
.P
.IP \(bu 5
Customer \s-1ID\s+1 (\s-1CID\s+1) (\(**)
.IP \(bu 5
Site \s-1ID\s+1 (\s-1SID\s+1) (\(**)
.P
The next two fields identify the processor on which the problem occurred.
.P
.IP \(bu 5
\s-1CPU\s+1 serial number (\s-1CPUNO\s+1) (\(**)
.IP \(bu 5
Machine type (\s-1MACH\s+1)
.P
The following fields identify the area in which the problem occurred.
.P
.IP \(bu 5
Trouble Report Type (\s-1TYPE\s+1)
.br
Valid responses:
.B doc
(documentation),
.B enh
(enhancement),
.B cs
(customer support),
.B fw
(firmware),
.B hdw
(hardware),
.B sw
(software),
or
.B unk
(unknown).
.IP \(bu 5
AT&T Product Name (\s-1PROD\s+1)
.br
Examples: \s-1UNIX\s+1, \s-1BASIC\s+1, etc.
.IP \(bu 5
Operating system release (\s-1OS_REL\s+1) (\(**)
.br
The release of the \s-1UNIX\s+1 system on which the problem occurred.
.IP \(bu 5
Product release (\s-1PROD_REL\s+1)
.br
The release of the product given in response to the AT&T product
prompt.
If product is
.IR unix ,
this prompt is not issued.
.P
The remaining fields define the body of the trouble report.
.P
.IP \(bu 5
Severity (\s-1SEV\s+1)
.br
The severity of the problem (1-4).
.IP \(bu 5
Required date (\s-1RDATE\s+1)
.br
If the severity of the report is 2, the required date for the fix is prompted.
The date given must be at least one week from the date of the trouble report.
.IP \(bu 5
Abstract (\s-1ABS\s+1)
.br
One-line description of the problem.
.IP \(bu 5
Description (\s-1DESC\s+1)
.br
Full description of the problem.
Note that description input will
.I not
be passed through
.IR nroff ;
however,
.I trenter
will recognize the macros
.SM
.B .ES
and
.SM
.B .EE
(example start, example end)
indicating an indented example (these may
be nested).
.IP \(bu 5
Attachments (yes or no) (\s-1ATT\s+1)
.P
If
.B ?
is given in response to a prompt, a message explaining the field will
be printed.
.P
If
.I trenter
receives an interrupt during prompting, the trouble report will be aborted.
.P
After a trouble report has been completed, the user is
given an opportunity to edit any data that has been supplied.
Next,
a reprint of the trouble report just entered may be requested.
Finally, the user is asked whether another
report is to be entered.
If so, the values for the starred items in the field table above will be
carried over from the first report.
.SS "Editing Field Values"
In order to provide editing while responding to prompts, the following
.I escapes
are recognized on input:
.IP \(bu 5
.BI \- field
.br
Return to a field for which data has previously been supplied.
If the field name is not specified, return to the previous field.
The value already assigned to the field is printed, and the user
may enter either new data, or another editing command.
.IP \(bu 5
.B !e
.br
Invoke the editor
.IR ed (1)
with any text already supplied for the current prompt in the edit buffer
(an alternate editor can be specified: see "Specifying Default Values"
below).
.IP \(bu 5
.B >
.br
Move down to the first unfilled field.
This is useful, for example, when the
.B \-
command has been used to fix a single field near the top of the report,
and the user wishes to quickly return to the point where they left off.
.IP \(bu 5
.BI = field
.br
Print the value currently assigned to the given
.IR field .
.IP \(bu 5
.B ??
.br
Print a summary of editing functions.
.P
Editing commands are only recognized when they appear at the beginning of
the input line;
they may be escaped using a backslash (\^\fB\e\^\fR).
.SS "Specifying Default Values"
Users may provide default values for any fields marked with (\(**) above.
These values are specified in a file
.I .trdef
in the user's home directory.
Entries in this file are of form:
.IP "" 10
\fIfield\fB=\fIvalue\fR
.P
where
.I field
is a field name from the table above.
.P
The editor to be used for field editing can be overridden with a
.I .trdef
entry by assigning the name of the desired program to the field
.BR \s-1EDITOR\s+1 .
.P
During prompting,
.I trenter
will print any values supplied for fields from a
.I .trdef
file.
By default, it will stop at each such field and wait for either a
carriage return (indicating confirmation), an edit command, or new data.
If invoked with a
.B \-s
option,
.I trenter
will print the supplied values, but will not stop for confirmation.
.P
Default values specified in
.I .trdef
files may be changed, on a per-report basis,
using the editing functions described above.
.SH FILES
\&.trdef			\- default value file
.br
/usr/spool/trenter	\- spool directory
