'\" t
.TH DON 1M "3B20S only"
.SH NAME
don, doff, disp \- device logically on, logically off or display status
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/don
unit unitnum [ pump-file ]
.br
.B "/etc/don all"
[ sysfile ]
.PP
.B /etc/doff
unit unitnum
.PP
.B /etc/disp
unit unitnum
.br
.B "/etc/disp all"
[ sysfile ]
.br
.B /etc/disp
.B "all \-"
[ sysfile ]
.br
.B /etc/disp
.B "all \-i"
[ sysfile ]
.br
.B /etc/disp
.B "all \-c"
[ incr ] [ sysfile ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Don\^
restores to service (logically connects to the system)
a hardware
.IR unit .
.I Unitnum
is the unit number of that particular
.IR unit .
For example,
.PP
.RS
don tn4 1
.RE
.PP
restores to service the \fBtn4\fP whose unit number is \fB1\fP.
.I Pump-file
in directory
.B /firm
is pumped into that specified device.
The default pump-file is
.BR unit .
.I Don all
reads
.IR sysfile ,
default is
.BR /etc/system ,
and performs a
.I don unit unitnum [pump-file]
on each
.SM IOP\*S,
.SM DFC
and associated peripherals listed in that file.
Lines prefixed with a \fB#\fP (comment) or \fB!\fP (no-pump) will be
skipped.
.I Don all
is primarily useful when the system is brought to multi-user mode.
.PP
.I Doff
removes from service (logically disconnects)
.I unitnum
of type
.IR unit .
.PP
.I Disp\^
prints the status of
.I unitnum
of type
.I unit
(e.g., ``out of service'', ``undergoing diagnostics'').
.I Disp all
reads
.IR sysfile ,
default is
.BR /etc/system ,
and performs a
.I disp unit unitnum
on each
.SM IOP\*S,
.SM DFC
and associated peripherals listed in that file.
Lines prefixed with a \fB#\fP are skipped.
Output is in the form of:
.PP
.RS
unit-unitnum    chan    dev    status
.RE
.PP
for an \s-1IOP\s+1 or \s-1DFC\s+1 and
.PP
.RS
slot	unit-unitnum	status
.RE
.PP
for each device on that
.SM IOP
or
.SM DFC\*S.
If the \- argument is given, a status diagram of the hardware is
printed on the terminal.
Known
.I terminals
from the environment parameter
.B
.SM $TERM
(see
.IR environ (5))
are:
.PP
.RS
.TS
lI lI
l l.
$TERM Value	Terminal Type
4420	TTY 4420
vt100	VT 100
2621	HP 2621
2645	HP 2645
.TE
.RE
.PP
Peripherals out of service are displayed in inverse video and
invalid entries are blinked
(shown by \fB\(**\fP and \(bv,
respectively, under the device slot on Hewlett Packard terminals).
The
.B i
flag makes the program interactive; the
.B c
flag redraws the status of the machine every
.I incr
seconds, default is 30
(a \fB?\fP is printed under each entry that has changed status since the
invocation of the program).
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP \w'/etc/master\ \ 'u
/etc/master
default table for hardware specifications
.TP
/etc/system
default system configuration file
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
config(1M), master(4), system(4).
.\"	@(#)don.1m	5.2 of 5/18/82
