.TH EMULCNTRL 1M "3B20S only"
.SH NAME
emulcntrl \- perform 3270 emulation control functions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/emulcntrl
device function [ arg ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Emulcntrl\^
is used to communicate with the 3270 emulation controller driver.
.I Device
is the name of the emulation controller to use (e.g.,
.BR /dev/emc0 ).
.I Function
is a string indicating the operation to perform.
Some functions require an additional argument
.IR arg .
Valid
.I function
strings and additional arguments are as follows:
.PP
.TP 7
.B on
Start the 3270 emulation script associated with
.IR device .
.TP
.B off
Stop the 3270 emulation script associated with
.IR device .
.TP
.B ascii
This 3270 emulation controller is to be \s-1ASCII\s+1.
The \s-1ASCII\s+1 3270 script must be loaded on the associated physical device.
.TP
.B ebcdic
This 3270 emulation controller is to be \s-1EBCDIC\s+1.
The \s-1EBCDIC\s+1 3270 script must be loaded on the associated physical device.
Controllers are \s-1EBCDIC\s+1 by default.
.TP
.B pollid
Change the \s-1POLL\s+1 character for this controller to
.IR arg .
.I Arg
must be the decimal value of the character desired.
.TP
.B selid
Change the \s-1SELECT\s+1 character for this controller to
.IR arg .
.I Arg
must be the decimal value of the character desired.
.TP
.B delay
Set the time delay before transmitting \s-1EOT\s+1's to
.IR arg /10
seconds.
The default is 2 seconds.
.TP
.B trace
Force the script to trace certain events.
.PP
Except for starting and stopping, these functions should be performed
.B before
starting the script.
.SH FILES
/dev/emc?	3270 emulation controller devices
.PP
/lib/a3270scr	\s-1ASCII\s+1 3270 script
.PP
/lib/e3270scr	\s-1EBCDIC\s+1 3270 script
.SH "SEE ALSO"
emulload(1M),
emulstat(1M),
vpmset(1M),
emulio(7).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.I Emulcntrl
fails if the function cannot be performed, e.g., changing the \s-1POLL\s+1
character on a running controller.
.\"	@(#)emulcntrl.1m	5.2 of 5/18/82
