.TH FSCV 1M "DEC only"
.SH NAME
fscv \- convert files between \s-1PDP-11\s+1 and \s-1VAX\s+1-11/780 systems
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "/etc/fscv \-v"
ispecial [ ospecial ]
.br
.B "/etc/fscv \-p"
ispecial [ ospecial ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I  Fscv\^
converts file systems between \s-1PDP-11\s+1 and \s-1VAX\s+1-11/780 formats. 
The super block, free list, and inodes are converted to the format of
the output file.
.I Fscv\^
may be executed on \s-1PDP-11\s+1 and \s-1VAX\s+1 processors. 
The mandatory flag specifies the format of the
converted file system:
.TP 6
.B  \-v
Convert file system from \s-1PDP-11\s+1 to \s-1VAX\s+1 format. 
.TP 6
.B  \-p
Convert file system from \s-1VAX\s+1 to \s-1PDP-11\s+1 format. 
.PP
.I Ispecial\^
is the name of a special file containing a file system to be converted 
(e.g.;
.BR /dev/rrp1 ).
The optional 
.I ospecial\^
is the name of the special file to receive the results of the conversion.
If 
.I ospecial\^
is specified the entire contents of 
.I ispecial\^
are copied to
.I ospecial\^
before the conversion is performed.  If
.I ospecial\^
is not specified an in-place conversion of
.I ispecial\^
is performed.
The following items should
be noted before executing 
.IR "fscv" ":"
.TP 6
1.
A file system consistency check
.RI ( fsck (1M))
should be performed on 
.I ispecial\^
immediately prior to executing
.IR fscv .
.TP 6
2.
Neither 
.I ispecial\^
nor the optional
.I ospecial\^
should contain a mounted file system during execution of
.IR fscv .
Modification to either the input or the output file system while
.I fscv\^
is executing will probably corrupt the converted file system.
.TP 6
3.
A backup of 
.I ispecial\^
(see
.IR volcopy (1M))
is highly recommended if an in-place conversion is to be performed.
System crashes, I/O errors, etc., during execution of 
.I fscv\^
may destroy the file system contained in
.IR "ispecial" "."
Also, if the optional
.I ospecial\^
is specified any data contained in that special file will be over written.
.TP 6
4.
If the optional
.I ospecial\^
is specified, this special file must be large enough to contain the
entire contents of 
.IR ispecial .
See the appropriate special files in section 4.
.SH EXAMPLES
Copy and convert a file system from \s-1PDP-11\s+1 to \s-1VAX\s+1 format:
.RS 6
/etc/fscv  \-v  /dev/rrp0  /dev/rrp10
.br
.RE
Perform an in-place conversion from \s-1VAX\s+1 to \s-1PDP-11\s+1 format:
.br
.ns
.RS 6
/etc/fscv  \-p  /dev/rrp10
.SH BUGS
The boot block is not modified during conversion.
The resulting file system will not be bootable.
No data contained in the files of the file system are modified.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
fsck(1M), volcopy(1M).
.\"	@(#)fscv.1m	5.2 of 5/18/82
