.TH NSCMON 1M
.SH NAME
nscmon \- operationally control the \s-1NSC\s+1 local network
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/nscmon
options
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Nscmon
provides the operational interface to control the \s-1NSC\s+1 local
network.
.I Nscmon
starts and stops all network transfers;
.I nscmon
enables and inhibits transfers to individual nodes.
All operations are in the eyes of the local node only.
.PP
The
.IR nusend (1C)
software allows the support of more than one adapter on a host,
where each adapter defines a separate network.
The network file
.B /usr/nsc/nets
contains all the networks known to the local node.
Most operations require the specification of one or more
networks.
If more than one netname is given, the operation is performed
on each network in turn.
Every \fIoption\fP that requires a netname may optionally take
the special case
.BR all .
In that case, the \fIoption\fP will perform its operation for all
the networks known, as specified in the network file
.BR /usr/nsc/nets .
The following
.I options
are recognized:
.PP
.TP "\w'\fB\-off\fP names\ \ 'u"
.BR \-start " netname"
Start up the
.IR nusend (1C)
software on the local node for the specified network.
This command
initializes the \s-1NSC\s+1 listener process for each network,
marks all the currently configured nodes
online, and enables the routing of file transfers across the \s-1NSC\s+1
network.
This command will not clear a hung adapter or \s-1NSC\s+1 driver.
The converse of this option is
.BR \-stop .
.TP
.BR \-stop " netname"
Terminate the
.IR nusend (1C)
software on the local node for the specified network.
Any files currently queued as well as
all subsequent jobs will be routed across the \s-1RJE\s+1
link (if it exists).
This command inhibits any incoming or outgoing file transfers.
This command will not clear a hung adapter or hung \s-1NSC\s+1 driver.
.TP
.BR \-cancel " netname"
Cancel the current active adapter operation (within the driver)
for the driver associated with the specified network.
The operation is marked as though it had failed.
An error will be returned to the user process and suspended processes
will continue normally.
This command is especially useful for clearing hung processes within the driver.
.TP
.BR \-halt " netname"
Disable (via software) all operations to the adapter for the specified network.
The driver will process opens normally, but all functions
to the adapter will be inhibited.
This command does not clear a hung driver or hung processes, but
inhibits all operations to the adapter.
The converse of this command is
.BR \-restart .
.TP
.BR \-restart " netname"
Enable (via software) all adapter operations for the adapter
associated with the specified network.
This command restarts any suspended processes within the driver.
This function
is the converse of
.BR \-halt .
.TP
.BR \-t " netname"
Turn off the \s-1NSC\s+1 adapter to adapter protocol process tracing
for the adapter associated with the specified network.
The binary trace files may be found in
.BR /usr/nsc/log/nsclog.\(** ,
where the
.B \(**
is the process \s-1ID\s+1 of the read/send process.
.TP
.BR +t " netname"
Turn on the \s-1NSC\s+1 adapter protocol process tracing for the adapter
associated with the specified network.
.TP
.BR \-e " netname"
Turn off the \s-1NSC\s+1 adapter to adapter protocol
error logging for the adapter associated with the specified network.
The binary error files may be found in
.BR /usr/nsc/log/nscerr.\(** ,
where the
.B \(**
is the process \s-1ID\s+1 of the read/send process.
.TP
.BR +e " netname"
Turn on the \s-1NSC\s+1 adapter protocol error logging for the adapter
associated with the specified network.
.TP
.B \-ps
Print certain information about active
.IR nusend (1C)
processes.
The format of the listing is:
.RS
.RS
PID	TIME	CMD
.RE
.RE
.IP
.I Nscsend
and
.I nscread
processes are listed under their parents.
The format for orphan processes is:
.RS
.RS
PID	PPID	TIME	CMD
.RE
.RE
.IP
The cumulative execution time
(\s-1TIME\s+1) is not displayed on the \s-1UNIX\s+1 System/370
implementation.
.TP
.BR \-on " netname names"
Mark all nodes in the
.I name
list for the specified network
online and notify the node to forward
all queued files to the local machine.
If name is the special case
.B all
all nodes for the specified network are marked up, as
configured in the network topological file,
.BR /etc/nsc .
Any files currently queued for the named node(s) and all subsequent
submitted transfers to the named node(s) will be routed
across the \s-1NSC\s+1 network.
This function is automatically performed if the
.B \-start
option is used.
.TP
.BR \-off " netname  names"
Mark all the nodes in the
.I name
list for the specified network
offline.
If name is the special case
.B all
all the nodes for the specified network are marked offline,
as configure in the network topological file,
.BR /etc/nsc .
Any files currently queued for the named node(s) and
all subsequent jobs submitted to
the specified node(s) will be routed across the \s-1RJE\s+1 link (if it exists).
.TP
.BR \-p " netname names"
Same as
.B \-on
option.
.TP
.B \-clear
Clear the process table of (kill off) all
.IR nusend (1C)
processes
that did not die normally.
.TP
.B \-loop
Perform the \s-1NSC\s+1 local loopback function.
Same as
.BR "nscloop \-l" .
.TP
.B \-stat
Query the operational status of the \s-1NSC\s+1 network.
Same as
.BR "nscstat \-l" .
.PP
All options may be freely interdispersed;
the
operations will be performed in the order given on the command line.
.br
.ne 5v
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP "\w'/usr/nsc/log/nsclog.\(**\ \ \ \ 'u"
/etc/nsc
the network topological file
.TP
/usr/nsc/nets
the networks known to the local node and the associated devices
.TP
/usr/nsc/log/nsclog.\(**
binary trace log
.TP
/usr/nsc/log/nscerr.\(**
binary \s-1NSC\s+1 error log
.TP
/usr/nsc/online/\(**
the \s-1NSC\s+1 network is enabled for this network
.TP
/usr/nsc/cons/\(**
remote nodes currently considered online locally
.TP
/usr/nsc/rvchan
nodes currently configured on the network
.TP
/usr/nsc/nsctorje
program that routes jobs on inactive nodes across the \s-1RJE\s+1 line
.TP
/usr/nsc/nsccmd
program that sends a message to a remote machine telling
it to send any queued jobs to the local machine
.TP
/usr/nsc/nsclisten
the \s-1NSC\s+1 network listen daemon
.TP
/usr/nsc/nscd
the \s-1NSC\s+1 network send daemon
.TP
/usr/nsc/nscrecv
the \s-1NSC\s+1 network receive daemon
.SH "SEE ALSO"
nscloop(1M), nscstat(1C), nsctorje(1C).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
All error messages are designed to be self explanatory.
.\"	@(#)nscmon.1m	5.2 of 5/18/82
