.TH ST 1M
.SH NAME
st \- synchronous terminal control
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/stload
.br
.B /etc/stcntrl
control action
.br
.B /etc/stprint\^
line device
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I stload\^
command file is used to load the synchronous terminal
prototype script,
.BR /lib/stscr ,
into the designated
\s-1VPM\s+1 hardware, and
start execution of the script.
As supplied,
.I stload\^
uses
\s-1VPM\s+1 hardware unit 0
and
.BR /dev/st0 ;
it will need local modification to use a different hardware unit
or to start more than one synchronous communications line.
.PP
The
.I stcntrl\^
command is used to activate and deactivate synchronous communications lines.
The line that will be acted on is specified by
.IR control ,
(e.g.
.BR /dev/st0 ).
The
.I action\^
argument may be either
.BR on ,
to activate the line,
or
.BR off ,
to deactivate the line.
The activation of a started line
or the deactivation of a stopped line
will result in an error.
Note that
.I stload\^
activates the lines associated with the scripts that it loads.
.PP
The
.B /etc/rc
file should contain the following multi-user entry:
.PP
.RS
/etc/stload
.RE
.PP
while each active synchronous line should be deactivated in
.B /etc/shutdown
by a line similar to the following:
.PP
.RS
/etc/stcntrl /dev/st0 \|off
.RE
.PP
The
.I stprint\^
command associates a
.B /dev/sp\(**
file with a printer on synchronous communication line
.I line\^
with the \s-1ASCII\s+1 device address character
.IR device .
The
.I stprint\^
command prints the associated file name on its standard output.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 15
/lib/stscr
synchronous terminal prototype script
.TP 15
/dev/un53.?
.SM TN82/UN53
peripheral controller pair
(3B20S only)
.TP 15
/dev/kmc?
.SM KMC11-B
microprocessor
(\s-1DEC\s+1 only)
.TP 15
/dev/st?
synchronous communications line control channels
.TP 15
/dev/tty\(**
synchronous terminal user channels
.TP 15
/dev/sp\(**
synchronous printer user channels
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
kmc(7),
st(7),
trace(7),
un53(7),
vpm(7).
.\"	@(#)st.1m	5.2 of 5/18/82
