.TH EXP 3M
.SH NAME
exp, log, log10, pow, sqrt \- exponential, logarithm, power, square root functions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <math.h>
.PP
.B double exp (x)
.B double x;
.PP
.B double log (x)
.B double x;
.PP
.B double log10 (x)
.B double x;
.PP
.B double pow (x, y)
.B double x, y;
.PP
.B double sqrt (x)
.B double x;
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Exp\^
returns
\f2e\u\s8x\s10\d\fR.
.PP
.I Log\^
returns the natural logarithm of
.IR x .
The value of
.I x\^
must be positive.
.PP
.I Log10\^
returns the logarithm base ten of
.IR x .
The value of
.I x\^
must be positive.
.PP
.I Pow\^
returns
\f2x\u\s8y\s10\d\fR.
If
.I x\^
is zero,
.I y\^
must be positive.
If
.I x\^
is negative,
.I y\^
must be an integer.
.PP
.I Sqrt\^
returns the non-negative square root of
.IR x .
The value of
.I x\^
may not be negative.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.I Exp\^
returns
.SM
.B HUGE
when the correct value would
overflow,
or 0 when the correct value would underflow,
and sets
.I errno\^
to
.SM
.BR ERANGE\*S .
.PP
.I Log\^
and
.I log10
return
.SM
.B \-HUGE
and set
.I errno\^
to
.SM
.B EDOM
when
.I x\^
is non-positive.
A message indicating \s-1DOMAIN\s+1 error (or \s-1SING\s+1 error when
.I x\^
is 0) is printed on the standard error output.
.PP
.I Pow\^
returns 0
and sets
.I errno\^
to
.SM
.B EDOM
when
.I x\^
is 0 and
.I y\^
is non-positive, or when
.I x\^
is negative and
.I y\^
is not an integer.
In these cases a message indicating \s-1DOMAIN\s+1 error is 
printed on the standard error output.
When the correct value for
.I pow\^
would overflow or underflow,
.I pow\^
returns
.SM
.B \(+-HUGE
or 0 respectively, and sets
.I errno\^
to
.SM
.B ERANGE.
.PP
.I Sqrt\^
returns 0
and sets
.I errno\^
to
.SM
.B EDOM
when
.I x\^
is negative.
A message indicating \s-1DOMAIN\s+1 error is
printed on the standard error output.
.PP
These error-handling procedures may be changed with the function
.IR matherr (3M).
.SH SEE ALSO
hypot(3M),
matherr(3M),
sinh(3M).
.\"	%W% of %G%
