.TH GETC 3S
.SH NAME
getc, getchar, fgetc, getw \- get character or word from a stream
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <stdio.h>
.PP
.B int getc (stream)
.br
.SM
.B FILE\*S \(**stream;
.PP
.B int getchar (\|)
.PP
.B int fgetc (stream)
.br
.SM
.B FILE\*S \(**stream;
.PP
.B int getw (stream)
.br
.SM
.B FILE\*S \(**stream;
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Getc\^
returns the next character (i.e., byte) from the named input
.IR stream ,
as an integer.
It also moves the file pointer, if defined,
ahead one character
in
.IR stream.
.I Getchar
is defined as
.IR getc(stdin) .
.IR Getc " and " getchar
are macros.
.PP
.I Fgetc\^
behaves like
.IR getc ,
but is a function rather than a macro.
.I Fgetc\^
runs more slowly than
.IR getc ,
but it takes less space per invocation and its name can
be passed as an argument to a function.
.PP
.I Getw\^
returns the next
word (i.e., integer) from the named input
.IR stream.
.I Getw\^
increments the associated file pointer, if defined,
to point to the next word.
The size of a word is the size of an integer and varies from machine
to machine.
.I Getw\^
assumes no special alignment in the file.
.SH SEE ALSO
fclose(3S),
ferror(3S),
fopen(3S),
fread(3S),
gets(3S),
putc(3S),
scanf(3S).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
These functions return the constant
.SM
.B EOF
at end-of-file or upon an error.
Because
.SM
.B EOF
is a valid integer,
.IR ferror (3S)
should be used to detect
.I getw\^
errors.
.SH WARNING
If the integer value returned by
.IR getc ", " getchar ", or " fgetc
is stored into a character variable and then compared against
the integer constant
.SM
.BR EOF ,
the comparison may never succeed,
because sign-extension of a character
on widening to integer is machine-dependent.
.bp
.SH BUGS
Because it is implemented as a macro,
.I getc\^
treats incorrectly a
.I stream\^
argument with side effects.
In particular,
.B getc(\(**f\(pl\(pl)
does not work sensibly.
.I Fgetc\^
should be used instead.
.br
Because of possible differences in word length and byte ordering,
files written using
.I putw\^
are machine-dependent,
and may not be read using
.I getw\^
on a different processor.
.\"	%W% of %G%
