'\" t
.TH GETGRENT 3C 
.SH NAME
getgrent, getgrgid, getgrnam, setgrent, endgrent, fgetgrent \- get group file entry
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <grp.h>
.PP
.B struct group \(**getgrent ( )
.PP
.B struct group \(**getgrgid (gid)
.br
.B int gid;
.PP
.B struct group \(**getgrnam (name)
.br
.B char \(**name;
.PP
.B void setgrent ( )
.PP
.B void endgrent ( )
.PP
.B struct group \(**fgetgrent (f)
.br
.SM
.B FILE
.B \(**f;
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IR Getgrent ,
.I getgrgid\^
and
.I getgrnam\^
each return pointers
to an object
with the following structure
containing the broken-out
fields of a line in the
.B /etc/group
file.
Each line contains a ``group'' structure, defined in the
.I <grp.h>\^
header file.
.RS
.PP
.TS
l1 l1 l1 l.
struct	group {
	char	\(**gr_name;	/\(** the name of the group \(**/
	char	\(**gr_passwd;	/\(** the encrypted group password \(**/
	int	gr_gid;	/\(** the numerical group ID \(**/
	char	\(**\(**gr_mem;	/\(** vector of pointers to member names \(**/
};
.TE
.RE
.PP
.I Getgrent\^
when first called returns a pointer to the first group structure in the file;
thereafter, it returns a pointer to the next group structure in the file;
so, successive calls may be
used to search the entire file.
.I Getgrgid\^
searches from the beginning of the file until a numerical group id
matching
.I gid\^
is found and returns a pointer to the particular structure in which 
it was found.
.I Getgrnam\^
searches from the beginning of the file until a group name matching
.I name\^
is found and returns a
pointer to the particular structure in which it was found.
If an end-of-file or an error
is encountered on reading, these functions return a
.SM NULL
pointer.
.PP
A call to
.I setgrent\^
has the effect of rewinding
the group file
to allow
repeated searches.
.I Endgrent\^
may be called to
close the group file
when processing is complete.
.PP
.I Fgetgrent\^
returns a pointer to the next group structure in the stream
.IR f ,
which matches the format of
.BR /etc/group .
.SH FILES
/etc/group
.SH "SEE ALSO"
getlogin(3C), getpwent(3C), group(4).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
A
.SM
.B NULL
pointer
is returned on
.SM
.B EOF
or error.
.SH WARNING
The above routines use \fB<stdio.h>\fP, which causes 
them to increase the size of programs,
not otherwise using standard I/O, more
than might be expected.
.SH BUGS
All information
is contained in a static area,
so it must be copied if it is
to be saved.
.\"	%W% of %G%
