.TH INTRO 3
.SH NAME
intro \- introduction to subroutines and libraries
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <stdio.h>
.PP
.B #include <math.h>
.SH DESCRIPTION
This section describes functions found
in various libraries, other than those functions
that directly invoke
.SM UNIX
system primitives,
which are described in Section\ 2 of this volume.
Certain major collections are identified by a
letter after the section number:
.PP
.PD 0
.TP 6n
(3C)
These functions, together with those of Section\ 2 and those
marked (3S), constitute the Standard C Library
.IR libc ,
which is automatically loaded by the C compiler,
.IR cc (1).
The link editor
.IR ld (1)
searches this library under the
.B \-lc
option.
Declarations for some of these functions may be obtained
from
.B #include
files indicated on the appropriate pages.
.TP
(3S)
These functions constitute the
``standard
.SM I/O
package''
[see
.IR stdio (3S)].
These functions are in the library
.IR libc ,
already mentioned.
Declarations for these functions may be obtained from
the
.B #include
file
.BR <stdio.h> .
.TP
(3M)
These functions constitute the Math Library,
.IR libm .
They are automatically loaded as needed by the
.SM FORTRAN
compiler
.IR f\^77 (1).
They are not automatically loaded by the C compiler,
.IR cc (1);
however, the link editor searches this library under the
.B \-lm
option.
Declarations for these functions may be obtained from
the
.B #include
file
.BR <math.h> .
Several generally useful mathematical constants are also defined
there [see
.IR math (5)].
.TP
(3X)
Various
specialized libraries.
The files in which these libraries are found are given
on the appropriate pages.
.TP
(3F)
These functions constitute the
.SM FORTRAN
intrinsic function library,
.IR libF77 .
These functions are automatically available to the
.SM FORTRAN
programmer and require no special invocation of the compiler.
.PD
.SH DEFINITIONS
A
.I character\^
is any bit pattern able to fit into a byte on the machine.
The
.I null character\^
is a character with value 0,
represented in the C language as '\e0'.
A
.I character array\^
is a sequence of characters.
A
.I "null-terminated character array"
is a sequence of
characters, the last of which is the
.IR "null character" .
A
.I string\^
is a designation for a
.IR "null-terminated character array" .
The
.I "null string"\^
is a character array containing only the null character.
A
.SM
.B NULL
pointer is the value that is obtained by casting
.B 0
into a pointer.
The C language guarantees that this value will not match
that of any legitimate pointer, so many functions that
return pointers return it to indicate an error.
.SM
.B NULL
is defined as
.B 0
in
.BR <stdio.h> ;
the user can include an appropriate definition if
not using
.BR <stdio.h> .
.PP
Many groups of
.SM FORTRAN
intrinsic functions have
.I generic\^
function names that do not require explicit or implicit type declaration.
The type of the function will be determined by the type of its argument(s).
For example, the generic function
.I max\^
will return an integer value if given integer arguments (\fImax0\fP),
a real value if given real arguments (\fIamax1\fP), or a double-precision
value if given double-precision arguments (\fIdmax1\fP).
.SH FILES
/lib/libc.a
.br
.br
/lib/libm.a
.br
/usr/lib/libF77.a
.SH SEE ALSO
intro(2), stdio(3S), math(5).
.br
ar(1),
cc(1),
f77(1),
ld(1),
lint(1),
nm(1) in the
\f2\s-1UNIX\s+1 System V User Reference Manual\fR.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Functions in the C and Math Libraries (3C and 3M) may return
the conventional values
.B 0
or
.SM
.B \(+-HUGE
(the largest-magnitude single-precision floating-point numbers;
.SM
.B HUGE
is defined in the
.I <math.h>\^
header file)
when the function is undefined for the
given arguments or when the value is not representable.
In these cases, the external variable
.I errno\^
[see
.IR intro (2)]
is set to the value
.SM EDOM
or
.SM ERANGE\*S.
As many of the
.SM FORTRAN
intrinsic functions use the routines found in the Math
Library, the same conventions apply.
.SH WARNING
Many of the functions in the libraries call
and/or refer to other functions and external variables
described in this section and in section 2 (\f2System Calls\fR).
If a program inadvertantly defines a function or
external variable with the same name,
the presumed library version of the function
or external variable may not be loaded.
The \f2lint\fR(1) program checker reports
name conflicts of this kind as ``multiple declarations''
of the names in question.
Definitions for sections 2, 3C, and 3S are
checked automatically.
Other definitions can be included by using the \\f3\-l\fR option
(for example, \f3\-l\f2m\fR includes definitions for the
Math Library, section 3M).
Use of \f2lint\fR is highly recommended.
.\"	%W% of %G%
