.TH LDOPEN 3X
.SH NAME
ldopen, ldaopen \- open a common object file for reading
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
.ta \w'\s-1LDFILE\s+1\ \ \ 'u
.B #include <stdio.h>
.ie '\*p'' \{\
.B #include <filehdr.h>
.B #include <ldfcn.h> \}
.el \{\
.B #include "\s-1INCDIR\s+1\/filehdr.h"
.B #include "\s-1INCDIR\s+1\/ldfcn.h" \}
.PP
.B \s-1LDFILE\s+1 \(**ldopen (filename, ldptr)
.B char \(**filename;
.B \s-1LDFILE\s+1 \(**ldptr;
.PP
.B \s-1LDFILE\s+1 \(**ldaopen (filename, oldptr)
.B char \(**filename;
.B \s-1LDFILE\s+1 \(**oldptr;
.ft R
.fi
.DT
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Ldopen
and
.ie '\*p'' \{\
.IR ldclose (3X)
\}
.el \{\
.IR ldclose (3L)
\}
are designed to provide uniform access to both simple object files and
object files that are members of archive files.
Thus an archive
of common object files can be processed as if it were a series of
simple common object files.
.PP
If 
.I ldptr
has the value
.BR \s-1NULL\s+1\*S ,
then 
.I ldopen
will open
.I filename
and allocate and initialize the
.B \s-1LDFILE\s+1
structure, and return a pointer to
the structure to the calling program.
.PP
If
.I ldptr
is valid and if
.BI \s-1TYPE\s+1( ldptr )
is the archive magic number,
.I ldopen
will reinitialize the
.BR \s-1LDFILE\s+1 " structure"
for the next archive member of
.IR filename .
.PP
.I Ldopen
and
.IR ldclose (3X)
are designed to work in concert.
.I Ldclose
will return
.B \s-1FAILURE\s+1
only when
.BI \s-1TYPE\s+1( ldptr )
is the archive magic number and there is another file in the archive
to be processed.
Only then should
.I ldopen
be called with the current value of
.IR ldptr .
In all other cases,
in particular whenever a new
.I filename
is opened,
.I ldopen
should be called with a
.SM \fBNULL\fR
.I ldptr
argument.
.PP
The following is a prototype for the use of 
.I ldopen
and
.IR ldclose (3X) .
.PP
.nf
.ne 12
.RS
/\(** for each filename to be processed \(**/
.PP
ldptr = \s-1NULL\s+1;
do
{
	if ( (ldptr = ldopen(filename, ldptr)) != \s-1NULL\s+1 )
	{
		/\(** check magic number \(**/
		/\(** process the file \(**/
	}
} while (ldclose(ldptr) == \s-1FAILURE\s+1 );
.fi
.RE
.PP
If the value of
.I oldptr
is not
.BR \s-1NULL\s+1\*S ,
.I ldaopen
will open
.I filename
anew and allocate and initialize a new
.B \s-1LDFILE\s+1
structure, copying the
.BR \s-1TYPE\s+1 ", " \s-1OFFSET\s+1 ", and " \s-1HEADER\s+1"
fields from
.IR oldptr .
.I Ldaopen
returns a pointer to the new
.BR \s-1LDFILE\s+1 " structure."
This new pointer is independent of the old pointer,
.IR oldptr .
The two pointers may be used concurrently to read separate parts of
the object file.
For example,
one pointer may be used to step sequentially through the relocation information,
while the other is used to read indexed symbol table entries.
.PP
Both
.I ldopen
and
.I ldaopen
open
.I filename
for reading.
Both functions return
.SM \fBNULL\fR
if
.I filename
cannot be opened, or if memory for the
.B \s-1LDFILE\s+1
structure cannot be allocated.
A successful open does not insure that the given file is a common object
file or an archived object file.
\}
.PP
The program must be loaded with the object file access routine library
.ie '\*p'' \{\
.BR libld.a .
\}
.el \{\
.BR \s-1LIBDIR\s+1\/libld.a
\}
.if !'\*p'' \{\
.PP
.IR Intro (4)
describes
.BR \s-1INCDIR\s+1  and  \s-1LIBDIR\s+1 .
\}
.SH SEE ALSO
.ie '\*p'' \{\
fopen(3S), ldclose(3X), ldfcn(4).
\}
.el \{\
fopen(3S), ldclose(3X), intro(4), ldfcn(4), paths.h(4).
\}
.\"	%W% of %G%
