.TH REGCMP 3X
.SH NAME
regcmp, regex \- compile and execute regular expression
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "char \(**regcmp (string1 [, string2, .\|.\|.], (char \(**)0)"
.br
.B "char \(**string1, \(**string2, .\|.\|.;"
.PP
.B "char \(**regex (re, subject[, ret0, .\|.\|.])"
.br
.B "char \(**re, \(**subject, \(**ret0, .\|.\|.;"
.PP
.B extern char \(**__loc1;
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Regcmp\^
compiles a regular expression and returns a pointer to the compiled form.
.IR Malloc (3C)
is used to create space for the vector.
It is the user's responsibility to free unneeded space so allocated.
A
.SM NULL
return from
.I regcmp\^
indicates an incorrect argument.
.IR Regcmp (1)
has been written to generally preclude the need
for this routine at execution time.
.PP
.I Regex\^
executes a compiled pattern against the subject string.
Additional arguments are passed to receive values back.
.I Regex\^
returns
.SM NULL
on failure or a pointer to the next unmatched character on success.
A global character pointer
.I __loc1\^
points to where the match began.
.I Regcmp\^
and
.I regex\^
were mostly borrowed from the editor,
.IR ed (1);
however, the syntax and semantics have been changed slightly.
The following are the valid symbols and their associated meanings.
.TP "\w'\fB(.\|.\|.\^)$n\fR\ \ \ 'u"
.B [\|]\|*\|.^
These symbols retain their current meaning.
.TP
.B $
Matches the end of the string; \fB\en\fP matches a new-line.
.TP
.B \-
Within brackets the minus means
.IR through .
For example,
.B [\^a\-z\^]
is equivalent to
.BR [\^abcd\|.\|.\|.xyz\^] .
The \fB\-\fP can
appear as itself only if used as the
first or last character.
For example, the character class expression
.B [\^]\-\^]
matches the characters
.BR ] \ and\  \- .
.TP
.B +
A regular expression followed by \fB+\fP means
.IR "one or more times" .
For example,
.B [0\-9]+
is equivalent to
.BR [0\-9][0\-9]\(** .
.TP
.B "{m} {m,} {m,u}"
Integer values enclosed in \fB{\|}\fP indicate the
number of times the preceding regular expression is to be applied.
The value
.I m\^
is the minimum number and
.I u\^
is a number, less than 256, which is the maximum.
If only
.I m\^
is present (e.g., {m}),
it indicates the exact number of times the regular
expression is to be applied.
The value
{m,} is analogous to {m,infinity}.
The plus (\fB+\fP) and star (\fB\(**\fP) operations are
equivalent to {1,} and {0,} respectively.
.TP
.B "( .\|.\|. )$\fIn\^\fP"
The value of the enclosed regular expression is
to be returned.
The value
will be stored in the
.IR (n+1) th
argument following the subject argument.
At most ten enclosed regular expressions are allowed.
.I Regex\^
makes its assignments unconditionally.
.TP
.B "( .\|.\|. )"
Parentheses are used for grouping.
An operator, e.g.,
.BR \(** ", " + ", " {\|} ,
can work on a single character or a regular
expression enclosed in parentheses.
For example, (a\(**(cb+)\(**)$0.
.PP
By necessity, all the above defined symbols are special.
They must, therefore, be escaped to be used as themselves.
.SH EXAMPLES
Example 1:
.RS
.nf
char \(**cursor, \(**newcursor, \(**ptr;
	\&.\|.\|.
newcursor = regex((ptr = regcmp("^\\n", 0)), cursor);
free(ptr);
.fi
.RE
.PP
This example will match a leading new-line in the subject string
pointed at by cursor.
.PP
Example 2:
.RS
.nf
char ret0[9];
char \(**newcursor, \(**name;
	\&.\|.\|.
name = regcmp("([A\-Za\-z][A\-za\-z0\-9\_]{0,7})$0", 0);
newcursor = regex(name, "123Testing321", ret0);
.fi
.RE
.PP
This example will match through the string ``Testing3'' and will return
the address of the character after the last matched character (cursor+11).
The string ``Testing3'' will be copied to the
character array
.IR ret0 .
.PP
Example 3:
.RS
.nf
#include "file.i"
char \(**string, \(**newcursor;
	\&.\|.\|.
newcursor = regex(name, string);
.fi
.RE
.PP
This example applies a precompiled regular expression
in
.B file.i
(see
.IR regcmp (1))
against
.IR string .
.PP
This routine is kept in
.BR /lib/lib\s-1PW\s+1.a .
.SH SEE ALSO
malloc(3C).
.br
ed(1),
regcmp(1) in the
\f2\s-1UNIX\s+1 System V User Reference Manual\fR.
.SH BUGS
The user program may run out of memory if
.I regcmp\^
is called iteratively without freeing the vectors no longer required.
The following user-supplied replacement for
.IR malloc (3C)
reuses
the same vector saving time and space:
.PP
.RS
.nf
/\(** \|user's \|program \|\(**/
	\&.\|.\|.
char \(**
malloc(n)
unsigned n;
{
	static char rebuf[512];
	return (n <= sizeof rebuf) ? rebuf : \s-1NULL\s+1;
}
.fi
.RE
.\"	%W% of %G%
