.TH TRIG 3M 
.SH NAME
sin, cos, tan, asin, acos, atan, atan2 \- trigonometric functions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <math.h>
.PP
.B double sin (x)
.br
.B double x;
.PP
.B double cos (x)
.br
.B double x;
.PP
.B double tan (x)
.br
.B double x;
.PP
.B double asin (x)
.br
.B double x;
.PP
.B double acos (x)
.br
.B double x;
.PP
.B double atan (x)
.br
.B double x;
.PP
.B double atan2 (y, x)
.br
.B double y, x;
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IR Sin ,
.I cos\^
and
.I tan\^
return respectively the sine, cosine and tangent of their argument,
.IR x ,
measured in radians.
.PP
.I Asin\^
returns the arcsine of
.IR x ,
in the range \-\(*p/2 to \(*p/2.
.PP
.I Acos\^
returns the arccosine of
.IR x ,
in the range 0 to \(*p.
.PP
.I Atan\^
returns the arctangent of
.IR x ,
in the range \-\(*p/2 to \(*p/2.
.PP
.I Atan2\^
returns the arctangent of
.IR y / x ,
in the range \-\(*p to \(*p,
using the signs of both arguments
to determine the quadrant of the return value.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.IR Sin ,
.IR cos ,
and
.I tan\^
lose accuracy when their argument is far from zero.
For arguments sufficiently large,
these functions return zero when there would
otherwise be a complete loss of significance.
In this case a message indicating \s-1TLOSS\s+1 error is printed
on the standard error output.
For less extreme arguments causing partial loss of significance,
a \s-1PLOSS\s+1 error is generated but no message is printed.
In both cases,
.I errno\^
is set to
.SM
.B ERANGE.
.PP
If the magnitude of the argument of
.IR asin " or " acos
is greater than one,
or if both arguments of
.I atan2\^
are zero,
zero is returned and
.I errno\^
is set to
.SM
.BR EDOM .
In addition, a message indicating \s-1DOMAIN\s+1 error is
printed on the standard error output.
.PP
These error-handling procedures may be changed with the function
.IR matherr (3M).
.SH SEE ALSO
matherr(3M).
.\"	%W% of %G%
