'\" t
.TH SYSTEM 4 "3B20S only"
.SH NAME
system \- format of 3B20S system description file
.SH DESCRIPTION
This file contains information
about the hardware configuration and system-dependent
parameters for the user's system.
A more complete description of the system file
is found in
Setting up the \s-1UNIX\s+1 System in the
.IR "U\s-1NIX\s+1 System Administrator's Guide" .
This information is used
by the \fIconfig\fP(1M) program
in configuring systems.
The file is divided into two sections,
separated by a line
with a dollar sign
.RB ( $ )
in column 1.
The first section describes the hardware configuration
and the second contains system-dependent information.
Any lines with a number sign
.RB ( # )
in column 1
are treated as comments and are ignored.
Blank lines are also ignored.
All fields may be separated by one or more space and tab characters.
.PP
The following codes are used throughout the following description:
.PP
.RS
.TS
lI lI
l l.
Name	Meaning
chan	channel
count	number of disk blocks in swap or dump area
dev	device on a channel
devname	name of device
driver	name of a software device driver
equip	equipage
hv	hardware version
inter	interrupt source bit
low	lowest disk block in swap or dump area
minor	minor device number
mt	maintenance type
mv	maintenance version
num	the number of instances of a software device driver
parm	name of a \s-1UNIX\s+1 System parameter
pc	name of device driver for a \s-1PC\s+1
pumpcode	path name of pump code file
slot	slot number of a sub-device on its device
unit	logical unit number of a device
value	value of a \s-1UNIX\s+1 System parameter
.TE
.RE
.SS "Hardware Configuration"
This section describes the configuration
of the Control Unit (\s-1CU\s+1)
and its components,
the Disk File Controllers (\s-1DFC\s+1s)
and their Moving Head Disks (\s-1MHD\s+1s),
and the Input Output Processors (\s-1IOP\s+1s)
and their Peripheral Controllers (\s-1PC\s+1s).
Any line that describes an \s-1IOP\s+1, \s-1DFC\s+1, \s-1MHD\s+1 or \s-1PC\s+1
may optionally have an exclamation point
.RB ( ! )
preceding the first field.
This indicates that a device
should not automatically
be brought into service
by the system
(see
.IR don (1M)).
Note that an exclamation point which precedes an \s-1IOP\s+1
implies that neither the \s-1IOP\s+1
nor its \s-1PC\s+1s
will be brought into service.
The same applies to a \s-1DFC\s+1 and its \s-1MHD\s+1s.
.PP
The \s-1CU\s+1 and its components are specified as follows:
.PP
.RS
.TS
lB lB l l l l l l l.
cu	\fRunit\fP	chan	dev	mt	mv	hv	
	cc	unit	mt	mv	hv	equip	0
	masc	unit	mt	mv	hv	equip	0
	sat	unit	mt	mv	hv	equip	0
	ch	unit	mt	mv	hv	equip	0
	ch	unit	mt	mv	hv	equip	0
	csu	unit	mt	mv	hv	equip	0
	dma	unit	mt	mv	hv	equip	0
		\fBch\fP	unit	mt	mv	hv	equip	inter
.TE
.RE
.PP
Each \s-1DFC\s+1 and its \s-1MHD\s+1s are specified as follows:
.PP
.RS
.TS
lB lB l l l l l l l.
dfc	\fRunit\fP	chan	dev	mt	mv	hv	equip
	mhd	unit	slot	mt	mv	hv	equip
.TE
.RE
.PP
Each \s-1IOP\s+1 and its \s-1PC\s+1s are specified as follows:
.PP
.RS
.TS
lB l l l l l l l l.
iop	unit	chan	dev	mt	mv	hv	equip
	pc	unit	slot	mt	mv	hv	equip	[pumpcode]
.TE
.RE
.SS "System-Dependent Information"
This section
specifies \s-1UNIX\s+1 System devices,
\s-1UNIX\s+1 System parameters
and software drivers.
.PP
The root and pipe devices are specified by:
.PP
.RS
.TS
lfB l l.
root	devname	minor
pipe	devname	minor
.TE
.RE
.PP
The swap and dump devices are specified by:
.PP
.RS
.TS
lfB l l l l.
swap	devname	minor	low	count
dump	devname	minor	low	count
.TE
.RE
.PP
Tunable parameters are specified by:
.PP
.RS
.TS
l l.
parm	value
.TE
.RE
.PP
Software drivers are specified in one of two forms:
.PP
.RS
.TS
l l.
driver	num
driver
.TE
.RE
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
config(1M),
don(1M),
master(4).
.br
Setting up the \s-1UNIX\s+1 System in the
.IR "U\s-1NIX\s+1 System Administrator's Guide" .
.\"	@(#)system.4	5.2 of 5/18/82
