.TH ACUSET 1M "3B20S only"
.SH NAME
acuset \- connect \s-1ACU\s+1s and communication lines
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/acuset
\|filen
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.I acuset
command provides a means for dynamically associating \fIUN56\fR
.SM ACU
minor devices with communication lines.
The connections are specified in 
.IR filen ;
the format of this file is described below.
Until these connections have been made,
a program cannot dial out on an 
.SM ACU.
The connections can be changed dynamically.
The only processes affected
are those trying to dial out
on the connections being changed.
.PP
.I Filen\^
consists of one or more lines of the following form:
.IP
/dev/acu? unit port \|[ \|line \|]
.PP
where
.I /dev/acu?\^
is the
.SM ACU
device name,
.I unit
is the 
.SM ACU
unit number,
.I port\^
is the port number,
and 
.I line\^
is the line number in an
.SM ACU
sharing arrangement.
A non-shared \s-1ACU\s+1 does not have a line number.
.PP
Here is a sample file for four \s-1ACU\s+1s
with no sharing arrangements.
.RS
.nf
/dev/acu0 0 0
/dev/acu1 0 1
/dev/acu2 0 2
/dev/acu3 0 3
.fi
.RE
.PP
Here is a sample file for one \s-1ACU\s+1
in a sharing arrangement with twelve data sets.
.RS
.nf
/dev/acu0 0 0 1
/dev/acu1 0 0 2
/dev/acu2 0 0 3
/dev/acu3 0 0 4
/dev/acu4 0 0 5
/dev/acu5 0 0 6
/dev/acu6 0 0 7
/dev/acu7 0 0 8
/dev/acu8 0 0 9
/dev/acu9 0 0 10
/dev/acu10 0 0 11
/dev/acu11 0 0 12
.fi
.RE
.PP
Non-shared and shared \s-1ACU\s+1s may be attached to
different ports of a single \fIUN56\fP.
.SH SEE ALSO
acu(7).
.\"	@(#)acuset.1m	5.2 of 5/18/82
