.TH BRC 1M
.SH NAME
brc, bcheckrc, rc, powerfail \- system initialization shell scripts
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/brc
.PP
.B /etc/bcheckrc
.PP
.B /etc/rc
.PP
.B /etc/powerfail
.SH DESCRIPTION
Except for
.IR powerfail ,
these shell procedures are executed via
entries in
.I /etc/inittab
by
.IR init (1M)
when the system is changed out of
.SM
.I "SINGLE USER"
mode.
.I Powerfail
is executed whenever a system power failure is detected.
.PP
The
.I brc
procedure clears the mounted file system table,
.I /etc/mnttab
(see
.IR mnttab (4)),
and loads any programmable micro-processors with
their appropriate scripts.
.PP
The
.I bcheckrc
procedure performs all the necessary consistency checks to
prepare the system to change into multi-user mode.
It will prompt to set the system date and
to check the file systems with
.IR fsck (1M).
.PP
The
.I rc
procedure starts all system
daemons before the terminal
lines are enabled for multi-user mode.
In addition, file systems are mounted and
accounting, error logging, system activity logging and
the Remote Job Entry (\s-1RJE\s+1) system are
activated in this procedure.
.PP
The
.I powerfail
procedure is invoked when the system detects a power
failure condition.
Its chief duty is to reload any
programmable micro-processors with their appropriate scripts,
if appropriate.
It also logs the fact that a power failure occurred.
.PP
These shell procedures, in particular
.I rc
may be used for several run-level states.
The who(1) command may be used to get the run-level information.
.SH SEE ALSO
init(1M),
shutdown(1M),
who(1),
inittab(4),
vpm(7).
.\"	@(#)brc.1m	5.2 of 5/18/82
