.tr ~
.TH CONFIG 1M "DEC only"
.SH NAME
config \- configure a \s-1UNIX\s+1 System
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/config
[
.B \-n
]
[
.B \-t
]
[
.B \-l
file ] [
.B \-c
file ] [
.B \-m
file ] dfile
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Config\^
is a program that takes a description of a
.SM UNIX
system and
generates two files.
One file provides information regarding the interface between
the hardware and device handlers.
The other file is a C program defining the configuration tables
for the various devices on the system.
.PP
The
.B \-n
option produces a non-separated
.B \I
and
.B \D
space
.B low.s
core image for the \s-1PDP\s+1-11
(this is for small systems, i.e.,
.SM PDP\*S11/23
and 11/34).
.PP
The
.B \-l
option specifies the name of the hardware interface file;
.B low.s
is the default name on the \s-1PDP\s+1-11;
.B univec.c
is the default name on the \s-1VAX\s+1-11.
.PP
The
.B \-c
option specifies the name of the configuration table file;
.B conf.c
is the default name.
.PP
The
.B \-m
option specifies the name of the file that contains
all the information regarding supported devices;
.B /etc/master
is the default name.
This file is supplied with the
.SM UNIX
system and should
.I not\^
be modified unless the user
.I fully\^
understands its construction.
.PP
The
.B \-t
option requests a short table of major device numbers for
character and block type devices.
This can facilitate the creation of special files.
.PP
The user must supply
.IR dfile ;
it must contain device information
for the user's system.
This file is divided into two parts.
The first part contains physical device specifications.
The second part contains system-dependent information.
Any line with an asterisk (\f3\(**\fP) in column 1 is a comment.
.PP
All configurations are assumed to have the following devices:
.PP
.RS
one \s-1DL\s+111 (for the system console)
.br
one \s-1KW\s+111-L line clock or \s-1KW\s+111-P programmable clock
.RE
.PP
with standard interrupt vectors and addresses.
These two devices
.I "must not\^"
be specified in
.IR dfile .
Note that the
.SM UNIX
System needs only one clock, but can handle both types.
.SS First Part of \f2dfile\fP
Each line contains four or five fields, delimited by blanks and/or tabs
in the following format:
.PP
.RS
devname    vector    address    bus    number
.RE
.PP
where
.I devname\^
is the name of the device (as it appears in the
.B /etc/master
device table),
.I vector\^
is
the interrupt vector location (octal),
.I address\^
is the device address (octal),
.I bus\^
is the bus request level (4 through 7),
and
.I number\^
is the number (decimal) of devices associated with the
corresponding controller;
.I number\^
is optional, and if omitted, a default
value which is the maximum value for that controller is used.
.PP
There are certain drivers that may be provided with the system,
that are actually
.I "pseudo-device\^"
drivers;
that is, there is no real hardware associated with the driver.
Drivers of this type are identified on their respective manual entries.
When these devices are specified in the description file, the
interrupt
.IR vector ,
device
.IR address ,
and
.I bus\^
request level must all be zero.
.PP
If the device is a
\s-1VAX\s+1-11 massbus adapter,
then
.I vector\^
is the adapter nexus number, and
.I address\^
must be zero.
.if \n()s .bp
.SS Second Part of \f2dfile\fP
The second part contains three different types of lines.
Note that
.I all\^
specifications of this part
.IR "are required" ,
although their order is arbitrary.
.PP
.ti -3n
1.
.I "Root\^/\^pipe\^/\^dump device specification\^"
.PP
Three lines of three fields each:
.PP
.RS
\f3root\fP	devname	minor
.br
\f3pipe\fP	devname	minor
.br
\f3dump\fP	devname	minor
.RE
.PP
where
.I minor\^
is the minor device number (in octal).
.PP
.ti -3n
2.
.I "Swap device specification\^"
.PP
One line that contains five fields as follows:
.PP
.RS
\f3swap\fP	devname	minor	swplo	nswap
.RE
.PP
where
.I swplo\^
is the lowest disk block (decimal) in the swap area and
.I nswap\^
is the number of disk blocks (decimal) in the swap area.
.PP
.ti -3n
3.
.I "Parameter specification\^"
.PP
Several lines of two fields each as follows
.RI ( number\^
is decimal):
.RS
.PP
.PD 0
.TP 15
.B buffers
number
.TP
.B sabufs
number~~~(zero on the \s-1VAX\s+1-11)
.TP
.B inodes
number
.TP
.B files
number
.TP
.B mounts
number
.TP
.B coremap
number~~~(\s-1PDP\s+1\&-11 only)
.TP
.B swapmap
number
.TP
.B calls
number
.TP
.B procs
number
.TP
.B maxproc
number
.TP
.B texts
number
.TP
.B clists
number
.TP
.B hashbuf
number
.TP
.B physbuf
number
.TP
.B x25links
number
.TP
.B x25bufs
number
.TP
.B x25map
number
.TP
.B x25bytes
number
.TP
.B iblocks
number~~~(\s-1PDP\s+1\&-11 only)
.TP
.B power
0 or 1
.TP
.B mesg
0 or 1
.TP
.B sema
0 or 1
.TP
.B shmem
0 or 1~~~~~(\s-1VAX\s+1\&-11 only)
.TP
.B maus
0 or 1~~~~~(\s-1PDP\s+1\&-11 only)
.PD
.RE
.SH EXAMPLE
To configure a
.SM PDP\*S-11/70
system with the following devices:
.RS
.nf
one \s-1RP\s+106 disk drive controller with 6 drives
one \s-1DH\s+111 asynchronous multiplexer with 16 lines (default number)
one \s-1DM\s+111 modem control with 16 lines (for the \s-1DH\s+111)
one \s-1DH\s+111 asynchronous multiplexer with 8 lines
one \s-1DM\s+111 modem control with 8 lines (for the \s-1DH\s+111)
one \s-1LP\s+111 line printer
one \s-1TU\s+116 tape drive controller with 2 drives
one \s-1DL\s+111 asynchronous interface
.fi
.RE
Note that the
.SM UNIX
System only supports \s-1DH\s+111
units that require corresponding \s-1DM\s+111 units.
It is wise to specify them in \s-1DH\s+1-\s-1DM\s+1
pairs to facilitate understanding
the configuration.
Note also that, in the preceding case, the \s-1DL\s+111 that is
specified is
.I "in addition\^"
to the \s-1DL\s+111 that was part of the initial
system.
We must also specify the following parameter information:
.RS
.nf
root device is an \s-1RP\s+106 (drive 0, section 0)
pipe device is an \s-1RP\s+106 (drive 0, section 0)
swap device is an \s-1RP\s+106 (drive 1, section 4),
~~~~~~~with a swplo of 6000 and an nswap of 2000
dump device is a \s-1TU\s+116 (drive 0)
number of buffers is 35
number of \f2system addressable\^\fP buffers is 12
number of processes is 150
maximum number of processes per user \s-1ID\s+1 is 25
number of mounts is 8
number of inodes is 120
number of files is 120
number of calls is 30
number of texts is 35
number of character buffers is 150
number of coremap entries is 50
number of swapmap entries is 50
power fail recovery is to be included
messages are to be included
semaphores are to be included
one psuedo device driver for the Operating System Profiler
.fi
.RE
.ne 8
The actual system configuration would be specified as follows:
.RS
.nf
.ta 12n 20n 30n 38n 46n
rp06	254	776700	5	6
dh11	320	760020	5
dm11	300	770500	4
dh11	330	760060	5	8
dm11	304	770510	4	8
lp11	200	775514	5
tu16	224	772440	5	2
dl\^11	350	775610	5
prf	0	0	0
root	rp06	0
pipe	rp06	0
swap	rp06	14	6000	2000
dump	tu16	0
\(** Comments may be inserted in this manner
buffers	35
sabufs	12
procs	150
maxproc	25
mounts	8
inodes	120
files	120
calls	30
texts	35
clists	150
coremap	50
swapmap	50
power	1
msg	1
sema	1
.fi
.RE
.DT
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 15
/etc/master
default input master device table
.TP
low\f3.\fPs
default output hardware interface file for \s-1PDP\s+1-11
.TP
univec\f3.\fPc
default output hardware interface file for the \s-1VAX\s+1-11
.TP
conf\f3.\fPc
default output configuration table file
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
sysdef(1M),
master(4).
.br
.I "Setting up the \s-1UNIX\s+1 System"
in the 
.IR "\s-1UNIX\s+1 System Administrator's Guide" .
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Diagnostics are routed to the standard output and are
self-explanatory.
.SH BUGS
The
.B \-t
option does not know about devices that have aliases.
For example, an \s-1TE\s+1\&16 (an alias for an \s-1TU\s+1\&16)
will show up as an \s-1TU\s+1\&16;
however, the major device numbers are always correct.
.tr ~~
.\"	@(#)config.dc.1m	5.2 of 5/18/82
