.TH DGN 1M "3B20S only"
.SH NAME
dgn \- initiate on-line diagnostics
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /dgn/bin/dgn
name unit [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIDgn\fP initiates on-line diagnostics on
the device
indicated by \fIname\fP and
\fIunit\fP.
\fIOptions\fP is a string of
keyword parameters
separated from each other
by white space.
\fIDgn\fP parses the parameter string \fIoptions\fP
and verifies that each
keyword parameter does not contain
any missing components or values
that are out-of-range.
.P
The following \fIoptions\fP are recognized,
each as a separate argument:
.PP
.PD 0
.TP \w'\fBfile\fP=\fIfilename\fP\ \ \ 'u
.B raw
Print the diagnostic results of every phase
and all failures.
By default, only the
final results and the first five
failures of each failing phase
will be printed.
.TP
.B ucl
Unconditionally execute the diagnostic with no
early termination (i.e., the diagnostic will be
run to completion in spite of failures).
By default, the diagnostic will
terminate after the first failing phase.
.TP
\fBph\fP=\fIx\fP[\fB\-\fP\fIy\fP]
Execute only the specified phase numbers.
May be either a single decimal number or a range of
numbers.
The letter \fIx\fP denotes the beginning phase number
and \fIy\fP the ending phase number.
.TP
\fBrpt\fP=\fIx\fP
Repeats the diagnostic \fIx\fP times.
The maximum value allowed is 256.
.TP
.B tlp
Executes the Trouble Location Procedure at the
conclusion of the diagnostic.
This process analyzes diagnostic failures
and generates a weighted list of
faulty circuit packs.
This option must \fInot\fP
be used in conjunction with the
\fBucl\fP option.
.TP
\fBfile\fP=\fIfilename\fP
Routes all output messages
into a file named \fIfilename\fP,
instead of the user's terminal.
\fIFilename\fP is opened for appending
and is relative to the directory
\fB/dgn/dgnc\fP unless a
full pathname is specified.
.TP
.B cont
This option is effective only when
\fIname\fP and \fIunit\fP is an \s-1IOP\s+1
By default, after an \s-1IOP\s+1 is diagnosed,
all of its Peripheral Controllers (\s-1PC\s+1s)
are diagnosed automatically.
The \fBcont\fP option causes
only the \s-1IOP\s+1 diagnostics to be run.
Note that \s-1MHD\s+1s are never automatically
diagnosed when \fIname\fP and \fIunit\fP
is a \s-1DFC\s+1.
.TP
\fBhu=\fIname\ \|unit\fR
This
.I option
allows a helper unit identified by
.I name
and 
.I unit
to be specified.
For example,
when diagnosing the magnetic tape controller (i.e.,
.SM UN\*S32),
a diagnostic test tape with a write ring must be
mounted on the specified helper unit.
The following example shows how one might invoke
diagnostics using the helper unit option:
.RS
.RS
dgn \|un32 \|0 \|ph=5 \|hu=mt \|2
.RE
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
rmv(1M),
rst(1M).
.br
.IR "3B DMERT Output Messages" ,
OM-4C000-01.
.SH WARNING
Diagnostic commands are intended for use only by trained
hardware maintenance personnel.

.\"	@(#)dgn.1m	5.2 of 5/18/82
