.TH DSTART 1M "3B20S only"
.SH NAME
dstart, dstop, dstat \- start, stop and find status of on-line diagnostics
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /dgn/bin/dstart
.PP
.B /dgn/bin/dstop
.PP
.B /dgn/bin/dstat
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIDstart\fP enables on-line diagnostics to be run
by automatically starting both the
Output Message Spooler Program (\s-1SPOOLER\s+1) and
the Maintenance Request Input Administrator Program (\s-1MIRA\s+1),
respectively.
These two diagnostics programs are only started
if they're not already running.
Also, both program's process \s-1ID\s+1 numbers are reported
in parentheses.
On-line diagnostics require that both these
programs be started before any diagnostics
requests are accepted.
.P
The spooler arranges for all diagnostic output
to be logged in \fB/dgn/dgnc/log\fP.
When the spooler is restarted, \fB/dgn/dgnc/log\fP
is moved to \fB/dgn/dgnc/oldlog\fP and a
new \fB/dgn/dgnc/log\fP is started.
All output is also appended to each file
mentioned in the map file, \fB/dgn/dgnc/map\fP
(see \fIchmap\fP(1M)).
.P
\f\s-1ID\s+1stop\fP stops both the \s-1SPOOLER\s+1 and \s-1MIRA\s+1 programs
only if they are currently running.
Otherwise, no explicit action is taken.
In either case, an appropriate message
is reported indicating what action did occur.
.P
\fIDstat\fP reports the current status
of both the \s-1SPOOLER\s+1 and \s-1MIRA\s+1 diagnostic programs.
If both programs are currently running a message
indicating that they are running is reported
along with their respective process \s-1ID\s+1 numbers.
Otherwise, a message indicating that they are
not running is reported.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
/dgn/dgnc/log
spooler output message log.
.TP 20
/dgn/dgnc/map
list of file names for routing spooler output messages.
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
dgn(1M), rmv(1M), rst(1M).
.SH WARNING
Diagnostic commands are intended for use only by trained
hardware maintenance personnel.
.\"	@(#)dstart.1m	5.2 of 5/18/82
