.TH FORMAT 1M "VAX stand-alone only"
.SH NAME
format \- format and/or check \s-1RP\s+106 and \s-1RM\s+105 disk packs
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Format\^
will format new \s-1RP\s+106 or \s-1RM\s+105
packs and check used packs (with write inhibited).
The program reports the location and type of errors encountered, including
.SM ECC
correctable error burst sizes.
.SH EXECUTION
.PP
The following example shows how to load
.I format\^
on a \s-1VAX\s+1-11/780 with a 
.SM UNIX
updated floppy disc:
.PP
.RS
.if n .ds > >>>
.if t .ds > \s-2>\h@-.2m@>\h@-.2m@>\s+2
.B \*>\H<cr>
.RS
.SM HALTED AT
.I nnnnnnnn\^
.RE
.PP
.B \*>\B<cr>
.RS
.SM CPU HALTED
.br
.SM INIT SEQ DONE
.br
.SM HALT INST EXECUTED
.br
.SM HALTED AT
.I nnnnnnnn\^
.br
.SM LOAD DONE\*S,
.I nnnnnnnnn\^
.SM BYTES LOADED
.RE
.PP
.B $$
.RE
.PP
To execute 
.IR format ,
type
.B /stand/format
after the standalone shell prompt
.BR  $$ .
The formatter will print out its command vocabulary, and
proceed inter-actively.
If one wishes to format a pack on disk drive 1, for example,
the command is
.BR d1f .
The program will double check format requests, as pack
contents will be destroyed.
.SH COMMANDS
.PD 0
.TP .5i
.RI "m " n\^
\s-1MBA\s+1 with drive doing the format is
.IR n .
(defaults to 0)
.TP
.RI "d " n\^
drive with the pack to be formatted or checked is
.IR n .
(drive number must be between 1 and 7)
.TP
f
format pack
.TP
c
check pack format
.TP
q
quit
.TP
v
print vocabulary
.TP
.SM
.RI "R\*S " n\^
set the error report level to
.IR n .
.TP
.SM X
will tell you about the available report levels.
.fi
.PD
.PP
The \fB\s-1X\s+1\fP command will explain the Report Level options
the first time it is executed.
Subsequent execution by the operator or by the program
during error logging, will merely print the information
defined by the current report level.
.SH FILES
/stand/format
.SH "SEE ALSO"
780ops(8).
.\"	@(#)format.1m	5.2 of 5/18/82
