.TH MSI 1M "3B20S only"
.SH NAME
msi \- memory system diagnostic interface
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/msi
.br
.B /etc/msi rmv
c a p
.br
.B /etc/msi rst
c a p
.br
.B /etc/msi clr
c a p
.br
.B /etc/msi enb
.br
.B /etc/msi dis
.br
.B /etc/msi find
c a p
.br
.B /etc/msi kill
c a p
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Msi\^
provides the facility for controlling the memory system
of the processor.
The granularity for memory management is a 2K page.
A physical memory board (or array) can contain
from 64 to 512 pages, depending on board type.
There can be 16 arrays on a memory controller and 2
controllers on a system.
Hence, to completely specify a memory page requires
the controller number, array number and page number
indicated by
.IR c ,
.IR a ,
and
.I p\^
respectively,
in the argument list.
These numbers are supplied by the operating system in the event
of a memory system error.
.PP
.I Msi\^
will become interactive
if invoked without arguments.
Valid arguments are:
.RS
.PP
.B Rmv\^
will queue the addressed page for removal.
The page cannot be removed immediately if it is currently in use,
but must be delayed until the process claiming it moves or terminates.
Certain memory system errors will automatically queue
a page for removal.
.PP
.B Rst\^
will return a previously removed page back to the system
for re-use.
.PP
.B Clr\^
will clear the addressed page, typically removing
any parity errors in the page at the expense of
lost data.
.PP
.B Enb\^
will enable the hardware refresh and correctable parity error
detection for the entire memory system.
.PP
.B Dis\^
will disable the hardware error detection.
This must be done before a new array is installed
to prevent a flood of refresh parity errors before
the new pages are cleared.
.PP
.B Find\^
will search for the first process claiming the
addressed page.
.PP
.B Kill\^
will terminate all processes using the addressed page.
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
3B20ops(8).
.\"	@(#)msi.1m	5.2 of 5/18/82
