.TH NSCLOOP 1M
.SH NAME
nscloop \- perform the \s-1NSC\s+1 local network loopback functions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/nsc/nscloop
[netname\fB.\|.\|.\fP]
.RB [ \-l ]
.RB [ \-s ]
.RB [ \-c ]
.RB [ \-u " units]"
.RB [ \-d " names]"
.RB [ \-f " file]"
.RB [ \-m " login]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Nscloop
uses the message loopback feature of the \s-1NSC\s+1 adapter hardware to
gather network statistics and to operationally query the availability
of remote adapters.
.I Nscloop
generates and prints a brief report on the standard output.
The first argument to
.I nscloop
may be one or more network names (see
.IR nscmon(1M)
for a complete description of a network).
If no network is given, all the networks specified in the
network file,
.BR /usr/nsc/nets
will be accessed.
If more than one network is specified, the
.B \-f,
.B \-d,
.B \-u
options are disabled.
For each network specified, the
.B \-l,
.B \-s,
and/or
.B \-c
functions are performed on all known adapters, as determined
by the network topological file,
.BR /etc/nsc.
.I Nscloop
recognizes the following options:
.TP "\w'\fB\-m\fP login\ \  'u"
.B \-l
Loop a message and associated data block off each
specified adapter.
Compare each byte sent with each byte
returned and report comparison errors.
This is the default mode.
.TP
.B \-s
Gather and report the trunk statistics for the specified adapters.
.TP
.B \-c
Gather, report, and clear the trunk statistics for the specified
adapters.
This function is reserved to the super-user.
.TP
.BR \-f " file"
Use
.I file
as the network topological file for the specified network.
This file
contains the symbolic names of each
machine on the network.
A report is generated for each unique adapter
that configured hosts are connected to.
.I File 
format is assumed to be as follows:
.sp .5v
.RS
           machine_name:anything:anything:device
.RE
.sp .5v
.TP
.BR \-d " names"
Perform the indicated function to only
those adapters on the specified network where the host
.I name
is connected.
.TP
.BR \-u " units"
Perform the indicated functions to only those
adapters on the specified network whose unit number is
.IR unit .
.TP
.BR \-m " login"
Send mail to
.I login
if any error is detected.
.PP
By default, option
.B \-l
is enabled.
If more that one of
.BR \-l ,
.BR \-s ,
or
.BR \-c
are specified, each function will be performed
on the indicated adapters.
If no adapters are
explicitly selected for reporting,
.I nscloop
will query all adapters for the specified network found in the
network topological file,
.BR /etc/nsc .
.SH FILES
.TP "\w'/usr/nsc\ \ \ \ \ 'u"
/etc/nsc
the \s-1NSC\s+1 network topological file
.SH "SEE ALSO"
nscmon(1M).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
All error messages are designed to be self-explanatory.
.\"	@(#)nscloop.1m	5.2 of 5/18/82
