.TH RST 1M "3B20S only"
.SH NAME
rst \- restore unit to service after on-line diagnostics
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /dgn/bin/rst
name unit [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIRst\fP restores the device
identified by
\fIname\fP
and \fIunit\fP into service
according to the \fIoptions\fP
specified.
A device can be restored to service
conditionally or unconditionally.
By default, \fIrst\fP restores a device
into service conditionally, unless the
the option \fBucl\fP is specified.
A conditional restore implies that diagnostics will
first be performed, and the final
results must be ATP (All Tests Passed)
before the device will be restored to service.
Otherwise the device is left out of service.
If the device is restored unconditionally (i.e., \fBucl\fP option
is specified), then no diagnostics are performed.
.P
The following \fIoptions\fP are
recognized, each as a separate argument:
.PP
.PD 0
.TP 10
.B raw
Print the diagnostic results
of every phase and all failures.
By default, only the final results
and first five failures
of each failing phase will be
printed.
.TP
.B ucl
Unconditionally restore the device
specified by \fIname\fP and \fIunit\fP
into service.
Note this \fIoption\fP implies that
no diagnostics will be performed.
.TP
.B tlp
Executes the Trouble Location Procedure
at the conclusion of the diagnostic.
This procedure analyzes all diagnostic
failures and generates a weighted
list of faulty circuit packs.
This \fIoption\fP must \fInot\fP
be used in conjunction with
.BR ucl .
.TP
\fBfile\fP=\fIfilename\fP
Routes all output messages into a file named
\fIfilename\fP instead of the user's
terminal.
\fIFilename\fP is opened for appending and
is relative to the directory \fB/dgn/dgnc\fP
unless a full pathname is specified.
.TP
.B cont
This \fIoption\fP is only effective
when \fIname\fP and \fIunit\fP is
an Input-Output Processor (\s-1IOP\s+1).
By default,
.I rst
will restore an \s-1IOP\s+1
and its
associated peripheral controllers
(\s-1PC\s+1s)
into service.
Use of this \fIoption\fP restores only the \s-1IOP\s+1
and \fInot\fP its \s-1PC\s+1s.
Note that restoring a Disk File Controller (\s-1DFC\s+1) never
implies restoring its Moving Head Disks (\s-1MHD\s+1s).
.TP
.BI hu= "name \|unit"
This
.I option
allows a helper unit identified by
.I name
and 
.I unit
to be specified.
For example,
when diagnosing the magnetic tape controller (i.e.,
.SM UN\*S32),
a diagnostic test tape with a write ring must be
mounted on the specified helper unit.
The following example shows how one might invoke
diagnostics using the helper unit option:
.RS
dgn \|un32 \|0 \|ph=5 \|hu=mt \|2
.RE
.SH EXAMPLES
.P
The following two examples show how one
might invoke this command for
either an unconditional or conditional restore,
respectively.
.RS
.TP
Example 1:
rst dfc 1 ucl
.br
would restore the device \fBdfc 1\fP into service
unconditionally.
The option \fBucl\fP is the only
valid \fIoption\fP for an unconditional restore request.
.TP
Example 2:
rst dfc 1 raw tlp file=filename
.br
would restore the device \fBdfc 1\fP
to service
if all diagnostics results were ATP.
The remaining \fIoptions\fP are applied
as described above.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
dgn(1M),
rmv(1M).
.br
.IR "3B DMERT Output Messages" ,
OM-4C000-01.
.SH WARNING
Diagnostic commands are intended for use only by trained
hardware maintenance personnel.
.\"	@(#)rst.1m	5.2 of 5/18/82
