.TH VOLCOPY 1M
.SH NAME
volcopy, labelit \- copy file systems with label checking
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/volcopy
[options] fsname special1 volname1 special2 volname2
.PP
.B /etc/labelit
special [ fsname volume [ \f3\-n\fP ] ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Volcopy\^
makes a literal copy of the file system
using
a blocksize matched to the device.
.I Options
are:
.PD 0
.RS
.TP
.B \-a
invoke a verification sequence
requiring a positive operator response instead of the
standard 10 second delay before the copy is made,
.TP
.B \-s
(default) invoke the
.B "\s-1DEL\s+1 if wrong"
verification sequence.
.PD
.RE
.PP
Other \fIoptions\fP are used only with tapes:
.PD 0
.RS
.TP \w'\fB\-bpi\fPdensity\ \ 'u
.BR \-bpi density
bits-per-inch (i.e.,
.BR 800 / 1600 / 6250,
or for 3B20S systems with Kennedy tape drives,
.BR 1600k ),
.TP
.BR \-feet size
size of reel in feet (i.e.,
.BR 1200 / 2400 ),
.TP
.BR \-reel num
beginning reel number for a restarted copy,
.TP
.B \-buf
use double buffered I/O.
.PD
.RE
.PP
The program requests length and density
information if it is not given on the
command line or is not recorded on an input tape label.
If the file system is too large to fit on one reel,
.I volcopy\^
will prompt for additional reels.
Labels of all reels are checked.
Tapes may  be mounted alternately on two or more drives.
.PP
The
.I fsname\^
argument represents the mounted name (e.g.:
.BR root ,
.BR u1 ,
etc.)
of the filsystem being copied.
.PP
The
.I special\^
should be the physical disk section or tape (e.g.:
.BR /dev/rdsk15 ,
.BR /dev/rmt0 ,
etc.).
.PP
The
.I volname\^
is the physical volume name (e.g.:
.BR pk3 ,
.BR t0122 ,
etc.)
and should match the external label sticker.
Such label names are limited to six or fewer characters.
.I Volname
may be
.B \-
to use the existing volume name.
.PP
.I Special1\^
and
.I volname1\^
are the device and volume from which the copy of the file system is
being extracted.
.I Special2\^
and
.I volname2\^
are the target device and volume.
.PP
.I Fsname\^
and
.I volname\^
are recorded in the last 12 characters
of the superblock (\fBchar fsname[6], volname[6];\fP).
.PP
.I Labelit\^
can be used to provide initial labels for unmounted disk
or tape file systems.
With the optional arguments omitted,
.I labelit\^
prints current label values.
The
.B \-n
option provides for initial labeling of new tapes only
(this destroys previous contents).
.SH FILES
/etc/log/filesave.log	a record of file systems/volumes copied
.SH "SEE ALSO"
fs(4).
.bp
.SH BUGS
Only device names beginning
.B /dev/rmt
(on \s-1DEC\s+1 systems) or
.B /dev/rtp
(on 3B20S systems)
are treated as tapes.
Tape record sizes are determined both by density and by
drive type.
On \s-1DEC\s+1 systems, records are 5,120 bytes long at 800 and 1600
bits-per-inch, and 25,600 bytes long at 6250 bits-per-inch.
On 3B20S systems, records are 2,048 bytes long on the Kennedy
(see
.IR un32 ( 7 ) )
tape drive
.RB ( 1600k
option)
and 5,120 bytes long for all other tape drives.
.\"	@(#)volcopy.1m	5.2 of 5/18/82
