.TH VPMSET 1M
.SH NAME
vpmset, vpmstart \- connect/load \s-1VPM\s+1 drivers and programmable communication devices
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/vpmset
[
.B \-b
] [
.B \-d
] [
.B \-s
] tdev \|pdev \|[ lineno ]
.PP
.B /etc/vpmstart
[
.B \-r
] device \|n \|[ \|filen \|]
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.I vpmset
command provides a means for associating dynamically a
.SM VPM
protocol driver minor device with a particular synchronous line on a
programmable communication device (\s-1PCD\s+1).
.I Tdev
is the protocol driver minor device name;
.I pdev
is the
.SM PCD
minor device name; and
.I lineno
is the number of a synchronous line if a
.SM DEC
.SM KMS11
was specified.
Until these connections have been made,
a user program
cannot open the
.SM VPM
protocol driver minor device for reading or writing.
.PP
The
.B \-b
option causes bit zero of the protocol option
bits to be set.
Some protocol scripts such as
.I cslapb.r 
(level 2 of BX.25)
use this bit to specify address B as the local address.
These bits are stored by the protocol driver and passed
to the
.SM PCD
when the
.SM VPM
protocol minor device is opened for reading and/or writing.
These bits are available to the protocol script via the
.I getopt
primitive.
.PP
The
.B \-d
option disconnects the
.SM VPM
protocol minor device from the synchronous line on the \s-1PCD\s+1.
This disconnect
will fail if the
.SM VPM
protocol minor device is open for reading and/or writing.
.PP
The
.B \-s
option prints to
.I stdout
a message indicating which Common Synchronous Interface (\s-1CSI\s+1) index
is associated with the protocol minor device. This number
.I modulo
16 indicates the channel number used for tracing events with the
.IR vpmsave (1M)
command.
.PP
.I Vpmstart
writes
.I filen
(\fBa.out\fR
by default) to the \s-1KMC11\s+1(\s-1DEC\s+1) or \s-1UN53\s+1(\s-13B20S\s+1) specified by
.IR device.
The argument
.I n
is a magic number that the \s-1PCD\s+1 driver saves to identify the program.
This number is checked when the
.SM VPM
driver is opened
to provide some assurance that the program loaded into the
.SM PCD
is the one expected.
The magic number for any standard
.SM VPM
program running in the \s-1PCD\s+1 is 6  (7 indicates a \s-1V.35\s+1
interface on the \s-13B20S\s+1).
While
.I filen
may be any file that is executable by the \s-1PCD\s+1, it will normally
have been prepared using
.IR vpmc (1M).
.PP
The
.SM PCD
control program waits for the
.SM VPM
protocol minor device to be opened for reading and/or writing
before beginning execution
of the protocol script.
The
.B \-r
option may be specified only when using a \s-1DEC\s+1 \s-1KMC11\s+1.
When this option is specified, the queue of commands to the \s-1KMC11\s+1 driver
is not flushed prior to starting the \s-1PCD\s+1 program.
This option must be used to reload
the \s-1KMC11\s+1 when recovering from a power-fail.
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
vpm(7), vpmc(1M).
.\"	@(#)vpmset.1m	5.2 of 5/18/82
