.TH VPMTEST 1M "DEC only"
.SH NAME
vpmtest \- test \s-1KMC\s+1 lines
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B /etc/vpmtest
.B \-t
top
.B \-k
kmc
.B \-n
line
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I Vpmtest
performs a series of loopback tests on a
specified
synchronous line interface of a specified
.SM KMC\*S.
.I Top
is a path name that specifies the
.SM VPM
protocol driver minor device to be used for the test.
.I Kmc
is the path name for the
.SM KMC
on which the test is to be run.
.I Line
specifies the particular line number (0-7) on a KMS;
for a
.SM KMC
equipped with a single-line line interface
.I line
should be 0.
The
.SM KMC
must have been previously loaded with the
.SM LAPB
script
.RI ( cslapb.r )
using
.IR vpmstart .
The
.I top
device must not be open for reading or writing;
this is the same restriction as for doing a
.IR vpmset .
The equivalent of a
.I vpmset
is performed to associate the specified
.I top
device
with the specified
.SM KMC
and line number.
.PP
The first test uses the maintenance mode of the line unit hardware
to perform an internal loopback test;
this test is independent of the modem to which the line is attached.
A failure at this point indicates a problem with the
.SM KMC
or line unit hardware
or with the
.SM VPM
or
.SM KMC
software.
The second test requires the local
(near end)
modem to be placed in the analog loopback mode;
on a
.SM WECO
209A dataset this is accomplished by depressing the
.SM AL
button on the front of the dataset.
A failure at this point indicates a problem with the modem
or with the interface between the modem and the line unit;
a faulty or disconnected cable is the most likely possibility.
The third test performs a loopback from the remote
(far end)
modem.
This requires placing the 
.I remote
modem in the digital loopback mode;
on a
.SM WECO
209A dataset this is accomplished by depressing the
.SM DL
button
on the front of the dataset.
The local
(near end)
modem should be in the normal mode for this test.
A failure at this point indicates trouble with
one or both of the modems
or with the telephone line
connecting them.
At the end of each test the
.SM VPM
error counters associated with the particular line
are printed.
.PP
.SH EXAMPLE
.IP
/etc/vpmtest \-t \|/dev/vpm1 \-k \|/dev/kmc1 \-n \|7
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
kmc(7), vpm(7).
.\"	@(#)vpmtest.1m	5.2 of 5/18/82
