.TH X25PVC 1M
.SH NAME
x25pvc, x25lnk \- install, remove, or get status for a \s-1BX\s+1.25 minor device or link
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR /etc/x25pvc " options"
.PP
.BR /etc/x25lnk " options"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I X25pvc\^
may be used
to install or remove a
.SM BX\*S.25
Permanent Virtual Circuit (\s-1PVC\s+1)
on a specified
.SM BX\*S.25
interface
.RI ( link ),
or to display the status of a specified
.SM BX\*S.25
minor device
.RI ( slot ).
Exactly one of the following \fIoptions\fP
(i.e.
.BR \-i ,
.BR \-r ,
.BR \-s ,
.BR \-e )
must be used:
.PP
.PD 0
.TP 7
.BR \-i " [ \-\fBS\fP ] [ \-\fBR\fP ] [ \-\fBN\fP ] \-\fBm\fP \fIslotname\fP \-\\fBc\fP \fIchno\fP \-\fBl\fP \fIlinkno\fP"
.I Slotname
is a path name that specifies a
.SM BX\*S.25
minor device (slot).
If that minor device is currently connected to some logical channel
on some
.SM BX\*S.25
interface (link), then first that minor device
will be removed, if possible (see the
.B \-r
\fIoption\fP).
If that minor device is now available,
it is connected to logical channel
.I chno
on link number
.IR linkno .
.I Chno
must be in the range of 1 to 4,095
and must not currently be in use
for any other
.SM BX\*S.25
minor device associated with that link.
Exactly one of three session-establishment \fIoptions\fP must be used:
.BR \-S ,
which is the preferred \fIoption\fP, indicates that session-layer
connect/accept/disconnect
qualified data messages are to be used;
.B \-R
indicates that
.SM RESET
in-order/out-of-order packets will be recognized
but not transmitted;
.B \-N
indicates that
the ``no protocol'' session mode will be used.
The
.B \-R
and
.B \-N
\fIoptions\fP are provided only for compatibility with
non-\s-1UNIX\s+1 system
implementations of
.SM BX\*S.25.
This command will fail if the link, channel, or minor
device number is out of range, or if the slot is in use. 
.PD 0
.TP 7
.BI \-r " slotname"
Remove the association between
.SM BX\*S.25
minor device
.I slotname
and the link and channel number to which
it is currently connected.
The command will fail if
the minor device number is out of range, 
the slot is not installed, 
the slot is open, packets are waiting to
be transmitted, or there are unacknowledged packets outstanding.
.PD 0
.TP 7
.BI \-s " slotname"
Print abbreviated status information for
.SM BX\*S.25
minor device
.IR slotname .
The information printed consists of
.IR slotname ,
the logical channel
number, the link number, and
the session-establishment \fIoption\fP.
This command will fail if the minor device number is out of range or
the slot is not installed. 
.PD 0
.TP 7
.BI \-e " slotname"
Print extended status information for
.SM BX\*S.25
minor device
.IR slotname .
The information printed consists of most of the information that is
stored in the internal data structures
associated with this device.
This information is useful for
determining the state of the PVC associated with this
device when hardware or software anomalies are suspected
and is intended for use by developers and sophisticated users.
This command will fail if the minor device number is out of range
or the slot is not installed.
.PD
.PP
.I X25lnk\^
is used to attach, detach, activate, deactivate,
get status for and perform a changeover on
a specified
.SM BX\*S.25
interface (link).
Exactly one of the following \fIoptions\fP
(i.e.
.BR \-a ,
.BR \-d ,
.BR \-i ,
.BR \-h ,
.BR \-s ,
.BR \-c )
must be used:
.PP
.PD 0
.TP 7
.BR \-a " [ \-\fBk\fP ] \-\fBm\fP \fIdevice\fP [ \-\fBn\fP \fIlineno\fP ] [ \-\fBo\fP \fImodctl\fP ] \-\fBl\fP \fIlinkno\fP"
Attach the
.SM BX\*S.25
link that is specified by
.I linkno
to the level 2 device whose name is
.IR device .
This command
makes the necessary connections between data structures.
.I Linkno
is the number of the
.SM BX\*S.25
link to be attached;
links are numbered starting with 0.
If a line number must be specified for the device,
(e.g. the device is a
\s-1KMS\s+111),
the
.B \-n
.I option
is used.
If the
.I device
is a
\s-1KMS\s+111 
and modem control is needed, 
the
.B \-o
.I option
is used and
.I modctl
is the path name of the
\s-1DM\s+111-\s-1BA\s+1 modem control unit associated with a particular
.SM KMC
as part of a
\s-1KMS\s+111. 
If the
.B \-k
\fIoption\fP is used,
this command will attach
.I device
as a backup for link
.IR linkno ;
otherwise,
.I device
is the primary.
This command will fail if the link number is out of range, the
link is already attached, or the device is already attached. 
.PD 0
.TP 7
.BR \-d " [ \-\fBk\fP ] \-\fBl\fP \fIlinkno\fP"
Detach the
.SM BX\*S.25
link that is specified by
.IR linkno .
This command removes the logical connections that were made
by the
.B \-a
\fIoption\fP.
If the
.B \-k
\fIoption\fP is used,
this command will detach the backup device
associated with
.IR linkno ;
otherwise the primary device is detached.
This command will fail
if the link number is out of range, 
the device is not attached, 
or the device has not been halted.
.PD 0
.TP 7
.BR \-i " [ \-\fBk\fP ] [ \-\fBb\fP ] [ \-\fBp\fP \fIpktsize\fP ] [ \-\\fBf\fP ] \-\fBl\fP \fIlinkno\fP"
Activate the
.SM BX\*S.25
link that is specified by
.IR linkno .
The
.B \-b
\fIoption\fP specifies that the link-level protocol
will use address B;
the default is address A.
The
.B \-p
\fIoption\fP specifies the packet size;
if it is used,
.I pktsize
must be a number that is a power of 2 and lies between 16
and 1,024 inclusive.
The default packet size is 128.
The
.B \-f
\fIoption\fP,
which is used only on the 3B20S,
indicates that the speed of the device
associated with link
.I linkno
is greater than 9.6KB.
If the
.B \-k
\fIoption\fP is used, this command
will start the level 2 protocol on the backup device
associated with link
.IR linkno ;
otherwise,
the
.SM BX\*S.25
level 2 and level 3
protocols will be started on the primary device
associated with link
.IR linkno .
This command will fail if the link number is out of range,
the link is not attached, the device is already started,
or the packet size is invalid.
.PD 0
.TP 7
.BR \-h " [ \-\fBk\fP ] \-\fBl\fP \fIlinkno\fP"
Halt the link specified by
.IR linkno .
If the
.B \-k
\fIoption\fP is used,
the level 2 protocol on the backup device will be stopped
provided the level 3 protocol is not running on the backup device.
If the
.B \-k
\fIoption\fP is not used,
the level 3 protocol is stopped
(wherever it is running)
and the level 2
protocol on the primary device is stopped.
If a backup device has been attached and started,
the level 2 protocol on the backup will also be stopped.
This command will fail if the link number is out of range or the link is
not attached.
.PD 0
.TP 7
.BR \-s " \-\fBl\fP \fIlinkno\fP"
Print the status of the link specified by
.IR linkno .
The information printed consists of the link number, the packet size
used on that link,
and internal status information including
whether or not the level 2 queue is full,
the restart state of the link,
whether or not the high and low priority queues are empty,
and whether or not a restart packet is on the level 2 queue.
Information about level 2 status is printed
for the primary device and also for the backup device, if it has been attached.
The value of
.I csidev
modulo 16 indicates the channel number used for tracing events with the
.I vpmsave
command. 
This command will fail if the link number is out of range or
the link is not attached to either a primary or backup device.
.PD 0
.TP 7
.BR \-c " \-\fBl\fP \fIlinkno\fP"
Changeover to the standby synchronous device associated with link
.IR linkno .
If the standby device is synchronized at level 2,
level 3 will now run on that device.
This command will fail
if the link number is out of range,
the link is not attached to both a primary and backup device, or
a backup device has not been started.
.SH SEE ALSO
vpmsave(1M), nc(7), x25(7).
.\"	@(#)x25pvc.1m	5.2 of 5/18/82
