.TH NC 7
.SH NAME
nc \- network control
.SH DESCRIPTION
The network control pseudo-device provides a means by which a
privileged user process
can install, remove, and get the status of a
.SM BX\*S.25
Permanent
Virtual Circuit (\s-1PVC\s+1), and
attach, detach,
start, stop, get the
status of,
and perform a changeover on a
.SM BX\*S.25
link.
Additional functions are planned for this driver when the
virtual-call feature and additional layers of
.SM BX\*S.25
are added to the
.SM UNIX
System
.SM BX\*S.25 implementation.
The
.SM BX\*S.25
driver supports
.IR open (2),
.IR close (2),
and
.IR ioctl (2)
system calls.
Definitions of constants and
declarations for the data structures mentioned can be
obtained by:
.PP
.RS
#include	<sys/nc.h>
.RE
.PP
The network-control
.I ioctl
system call has the following form:
.PP
.RS
ioctl \|(\|fildes,\|cmd,\|arg\|)
.RE
.PP
where
.I fildes
is the file descriptor returned by the
.I open
of the
.B nc
device and
.I cmd
is one of the following constants:
.P
.B \s-1NCPVCI\s+1
\- Install a \s-1PVC\s+1.
This command creates
one end of a \s-1PVC\s+1 by connecting a minor device of the
.SM BX\*S.25
driver
(slot) to a particular logical
channel on a specified link.
.I Arg
is a pointer to a
.I ncpvc
data structure
where
.I slot\^
is the minor device number of the slot to be used as the end point
of the \s-1PVC\s+1,
.I chno\^
is the logical channel number to be used, and
.I link\^
is the number of the
.SM BX\*S.25
link to be used.
Links are numbered starting with 0.
.I Chno\^
must be in the range 1 to 4,095
and must not be currently in use on this link.
The following errors may be returned: 
\s-1ENXIO\s+1 if the minor device number is out of range; 
\s-1ECHRNG\s+1 if the channel number is out of range;
\s-1ELNRNG\s+1 if the link number is out of range; 
\s-1EBUSY\s+1 if the slot is in use. 
The two low-order bits of
.I options\^
specify one of three possible session-establishment protocols:
.PP
.PD 0
.IP "" 7
\s-1PVC_SESS\s+1	session-layer open/close protocol
.IP "" 7
\s-1PVC_RST\s+1	reset in-order/out-of-order protocol
.IP "" 7
\s-1PVC_NONE\s+1	``no-protocol'' session mode
.PD
.PP
These protocols are explained in
.IR x25 (7).
The constants \s-1PVC_SESS\s+1, \s-1PVC_RST\s+1, and \s-1PVC_NONE\s+1 are
defined in
.BR /usr/include/sys/x25u.h .
If the link on which the \s-1PVC\s+1 is installed is
currently active (i.e., not in the halted
state), the
.SM BX\*S.25 
reset procedure will be initiated for the logical channel.
When the reset procedure is completed, the \s-1PVC\s+1 is ready
for data transfer.
.P
.B \s-1NCPVCR\s+1
\- Remove a \s-1PVC\s+1.
If
.I arg
is the minor device number of a slot that is currently
associated with a \s-1PVC\s+1 and is not open,
the local end of that \s-1PVC\s+1 is removed, i.e., disconnected.
The slot and logical channel number become available for
reuse.
The following errors may be returned:
\s-1ENXIO\s+1 if the minor device number is out of range;
\s-1ENODEV\s+1 if the minor device is not installed;
\s-1EBUSY\s+1 if the slot is in use. 
.P
.B \s-1NCPVCSTAT\s+1
\- Get the status of a \s-1PVC\s+1.
This command gets the connection and status information
for slot
.I slot
and places it in the
.I ncpvcstat
data structure
pointed to by
.I arg.
The following errors may be returned:
\s-1ENXIO\s+1 if the minor device number is out of range;
\s-1ENODEV\s+1 if the minor device is not installed. 
.P
.B \s-1NCATTACH\s+1, \s-1NCBKATTACH\s+1 
\- Associate a link with a specified communications device
and mark the device as primary
.SM (\fBNCATTACH\fP)
or
backup
.SM (\fBNCBKATTACH\fP).
.I Arg
is a pointer to an
.I ncattch
data structure that contains the link number and
major/minor device number of the device.
The following errors may be returned:
\s-1ELNRNG\s+1 if the link number is out of range;
\s-1EACCES\s+1 if the link is already attached;
\s-1EBUSY\s+1 if the device is already attached;
\s-1ENOCSI\s+1 if no
.SM CSI
structure is available;
.SM ENXIO
if the
minor device number of the communications device is out of range. 
.P
.br
.ne 4v
.B \s-1NCDETACH\s+1, \s-1NCBKDETACH\s+1 
\- Disassociate the link specified by
.I arg
from its associated primary
.SM (\fBNCDETACH\fP)
or
backup
.SM (\fBNCBKDETACH\fP)
device.
The link and device become available for reuse.
The following errors may be returned: 
\s-1ELNRNG\s+1 if the link number is out of range;
\s-1EUNATCH\s+1 if the link is not attached to a device;
\s-1ENODEV\s+1 if the device is not attached;
\s-1EBUSY\s+1 if the device has not been halted. 
.P
.B \s-1NCSTART\s+1, \s-1NCBKSTART\s+1 
\- Start a specified link.
The level 2 protocol is started on the primary
.SM (\fBNCSTART\fP)
or
backup
.SM (\fBNCBKSTART\fP)
device associated
with the link specified.
.I Arg\^
is a pointer to an
.I ncstart
data structure
that contains information such as the link number and packet size.
The level 3 restart procedure is then initiated for the link
if
.B \s-1NCSTART\s+1
is the command used. 
The following errors may be returned:
\s-1ELNRNG\s+1 if the link number is out of range;
\s-1EUNATCH\s+1 if the link is not attached to a device;
\s-1EBUSY\s+1 if the device is already started;
\s-1EINVAL\s+1 if the packet size specified with
.B \s-1NCSTART\s+1
is different from that specified with
.BR \s-1NCBKSTART\s+1 . 
.P
.B \s-1NCSTOP\s+1, \s-1NCBKSTOP\s+1 
\- Stop a
.SM BX\*S.25
link.
The
.B \s-1NCSTOP\s+1
command stops the level 3 protocol
on the link specified by
.I arg 
and the link data structure is reinitialized.
For either command, the level 2 protocol is stopped
on the associated primary or backup device. 
For
.BR \s-1NCSTOP\s+1 ,
if a backup device has been attached,
the level 2 protocol is also stopped on that device.
The following errors may be returned:
\s-1ELNRNG\s+1 if the link number is out of range;
\s-1EUNATCH\s+1 if the link is not attached to a device;
\s-1EBUSY\s+1 if the level 3 protocol is running on the backup device
.SM (\fBNCSTOP\fP).
.P
.B \s-1NCCHNGE\s+1
\- Changeover to the standby device associated with the link
specified by
.IR arg.
If the standby device is synchronized at level 2,
the level 3 protocol will now run on that device.
The following errors may be returned:
\s-1ELNRNG\s+1 if the link number is out of range;
\s-1EUNATCH\s+1
if the link is not attached to both a primary and backup device; 
\s-1EACCES\s+1
if the backup device was not started.
.P
.B \s-1NCLNKSTAT\s+1
\- Get the status of a link.
This command gets the connections and status information
for link
.I link
and places it in the
.I nclnkstat
data structure
pointed to by
.I arg.
The following errors may be returned:
\s-1ELNRNG\s+1 if the link number is out of range;
\s-1EUNATCH\s+1
if the link is not attached to either a primary or backup device.
.SH SEE ALSO
x25pvc(1M), x25(7).
.\"	@(#)nc.7	5.2 of 5/18/82
