.TH MK 8
.SH NAME
mk \- how to remake the system and commands
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
All source for the
.SM UNIX
system is in a source tree
distributed in the directory
.BR /usr/src .
This includes source for the operating system,
libraries, commands, miscellaneous files necessary to the
running system, and procedures to create everything
from this source.
.PP
The top level consists of the directories
.BR cmd ,
.BR lib ,
.BR uts ,
.BR head ,
and
.B stand
as well as commands to remake each of these ``directories''.
These commands are named
.IR :mk ,
which remakes everything, and
.IB :mk dir
where
.B dir
is the directory to be recreated.
Each recreation command will make all or part of the piece,
over which it has control.
The command
.I :mk\^
will run each of these commands and thus recreate the
whole system.
.PP
The
.B lib
directory contains
libraries used when loading user programs.
The largest and most important of these
is the C library.
All libraries are in sub-directories and are
created by a makefile or runcom.
A runcom is a Shell command procedure used specifically to
remake a piece of the system.
.I :mklib\^
will rebuild the libraries that are given as arguments.
The argument \fB\e\(**\fP will cause it to remake all libraries.
.PP
The
.B head
directory contains
the header files,
usually found
in
.B /usr/include
on the running system.
.I :mkhead\^
will install those header files that are given as arguments.
The argument \fB\e\(**\fP will cause it to install all header files.
.PP
The
.B uts
directory contains
the source for the
.SM UNIX
operating system.
.I :mkuts\^
(no arguments)
invokes a series of makefiles
that will recreate the operating system.
.PP
The
.B stand
directory contains stand-alone commands and boot programs.
.I :mkstand\^
will rebuild and install these programs.
.PP
The
.B cmd
directory contains files and directories.
.I :mkcmd\^
transforms source into a command
based upon
its suffix
.RB ( .l ", " .y ,
.BR .c ", " .s ", " .sh ),
or its makefile
[see
.IR make (1)]
or runcom.
A directory is assumed to have a makefile or a runcom
that will take care of creating everything associated with
that directory and its sub-directories.
Makefiles and
runcoms are named
.IB command .mk
and
.IB command .rc
respectively.
.PP
The command
.I :mkcmd\^
will recreate commands based upon a makefile
or runcom
if one of them exists; alternatively
commands are recreated in a standard
way based on the suffix of the source file.
All commands requiring more than one file of source
are grouped in sub-directories, and must have a makefile
or a runcom.
C programs
.RB ( .c )
are compiled
by the C compiler and loaded stripped with shared text.
Assembly language programs
.RB ( .s )
are assembled with
.B /usr/include/sys.s
which contains the system call definitions.
Yacc programs
.RB ( .y )
and lex programs
.RB ( .l )
are processed by
.IR yacc (1)
and
.IR lex (1)
respectively, before
C compilation.
Shell programs
.RB ( .sh )
are copied to create the command.
Each of these operations leaves a command in
.B \&./cmd
which is then
installed by using
.BR /etc/install .
.PP
The arguments to
.I :mkcmd\^
are either command names
or subsystem names.
The subsystems distributed with the
.SM UNIX
system
are:
.BR acct ,
.BR graf ,
.BR rje ,
.BR sccs ,
and
.BR text .
Prefacing the
.I :mkcmd\^
instruction with
an assignment to the Shell variable
.SM
.B $ARGS
will cause the indicated components of the subsystem to be rebuilt.
.bp
The entire
.B sccs
subsystem can be rebuilt by:
.IP
/usr/src/:mkcmd\ \ sccs
.PP
while the
.I delta\^
component of
.B sccs
can be rebuilt by:
.IP
\s-1ARGS\s+1="delta"\ \ /usr/src/:mkcmd\ \ sccs
.PP
The
.I log\^
command, which is a part of the
.B stat
package, which is itself a part of the
.B graf
package,
can be rebuilt by:
.IP
\s-1ARGS\s+1="stat log"\ \ /usr/src/:mkcmd\ \ graf
.PP
The argument \fB\e\(**\fP will cause all commands and subsystems to be rebuilt.
.PP
Makefiles, both in
.B \&./cmd
and in sub-directories, have a standard
format.
In particular
.I :mkcmd\^
depends on there being entries for
.I install\^
and
.IR clobber .
.I Install\^
should cause everything over which the makefile has
jurisdiction to be made and installed by
.BR /etc/install .
.I Clobber\^
should cause a complete cleanup of all unnecessary
files resulting from the previous invocation.
.PP
Most of the runcoms in
.B \&./cmd
(as opposed to sub-directories)
relate in particular to a need for separated instruction and
data (I and D)
space.
.PP
In the past, dependency on the C library routine
.IR ctime (3C)
was also
important.
.I Ctime\^
had to be modified for all systems located outside
of the eastern time zone, and all commands that referenced it had
to be recompiled.
.I Ctime\^
has been rewritten to check the environment
[see
.IR environ (5)]
for the time zone.
This results in time zone conversions possible on a per-process basis.
The file
.B /etc/profile
sets the initial environment for each user,
and
.B /etc/rc
sets it for certain system daemons.
These two programs are the only ones which must be modified outside
of the eastern time zone.
.PP
An effort has been made to separate the creation of a command from source,
and its installation on the running system.
The command
.B /etc/install
is used by
.I :mkcmd\^
and most makefiles to install commands in the
proper place on the running system.
The use of install allows maximum flexibility in the administration of
the system.
Install makes very few assumptions about where a command is located,
who owns it, and what modes are in effect.
All assumptions may be overridden on invocation of the command,
or more permanently by redefining a few variables
in install.
The object is to install a new version of a command in the same place,
with the same attributes as the prior version.
.PP
In addition, the use of a separate command to perform installation
allows for the creation of test systems in other than standard places,
easy movement of commands to balance load, and independent maintenance
of makefiles.
The minimization of makefiles in most cases,
and the site independence of the others should greatly reduce the
necessary maintenance, and allow makefiles
to be considered
part of the standard source.
.SH SEE ALSO
install(1M),
lex(1),
make(1),
yacc(1),
ctime(3C),
and
environ(5).
.\"	@(#)mk.8	6.2 of 9/6/83
