.TH NSCOPS 8
.SH NAME
NSCops \- NSC SYS32 console operations
.SH DESCRIPTION
The procedures described here include the major operational
sequences involved in running the \s-1UNIX\s+1 system on
the SYS32 system.  The following notation is used:
.TP 3
1.
Special characters are enclosed in <> (e.g., \fB<ctl>\fR
represents the "control" key, and \fB<cr>\fR
stands for the "carriage return" key).
.TP
2.
Items within \fB{}\fRs are mandatory substitutions.
.TP
3.
Items within \fB[]\fRs are optional.
.SH DAILY PROCEDURES
.SS Disk Boot
When the system is first powered on, it will run through
its power-on diagnostics and boot the stand-alone shell.
Following is an example of what will appear on the console:

   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
   Boot: dc(1,0)vmunix
   20992+7592+12732

   $$
.PP
The $$ prompt indicates that the stand-alone shell has
been booted and is ready to accept commands.  If
it is desired to run stand-alone \f2fsck\fR(1M), or
other stand-alone functions, now is the time to run them.
The commands have the form
.B/stand/
\fBprogram\fR where \fBprogram\fR can be any name from
a limited list of the \s-1UNIX\s+1 System commands found in the
directory
.B/stand
.
To perform a file system consistency check, type:
.PP
  $$ /stand/fsck /dev/dsk/1s0
.PP
To bring up the \s-1UNIX\s+1 system, the operator must type
.Bunix<cr>.
Typically, the system will come up in \s-1SINGLE-USER\s+1
\s-1MODE\s+1 [
.IS "init s" ,
see \f2init\fR(1M))].
.PP
This is the appropriate time to do file system backups,
and \fIfsck\f1(1M) should be executed if it was not
executed in the stand-alone section of the boot.
One must never operate the \s-1UNIX\s+1 system with a defective file system.
.PP
After successful completion of \f2fsck\fR, the operator can bring
the system to mulit-user operation by executing
.Btelenit 2.
.SS Bringing the System Down
The shutdown procedure is designed to gracefully turn off all
processes and being the system back to single-user state
with all buffers flushed.  To do this, the operator should
execute \f2shutdown\fR(1M).  If shutdown is not successful, use
the following sequence of commands:
.nf
   killall
   sync
   telinit 6
   fsdk (optional)
.fi
.PP
The system may now be powered off or reset.
.bp
.SS System Dumps
After a system crash, the following procedure should be used
to get a system dump on tape:
.TP 4
1.
Insert a rewound writeable tape into the tape drive.
.TP
2.
Enter the following commands:
.nf
     <ctl>a
     D
.fi
.TP
3.
Reset the machine.
.TP
4.
Before returning to the \s-1UNIX\s+1 system, execute the
stand-alone \fIfsck\fR(1M).
.SH INSTALLATION BOOT PROCEDURE
.SS Tape Boot
.TP
1.
Power up the machine.  Be sure to power up the CPU module
first and wait a few moments before powering up the 
disk/tape module.
.TP
2.
Insert tape 1 of the distribution tapes into the tape drive.
.TP
3.
Reset the machine.  You now have ten second to respond to the
menu mode question before anything happens.
.TP
4.
Enter the following responses:
.nf
    Menu mode - y/n  \fBy\fR
    .
    .
    .
    Select - 0,1,2,...,9,X,M,R,S,L,H(elp) ? \fBm\fR
.fi
.TP
5.
When the monitor prompt (*) appears, enter
.Bb<cr>
to boot the stand-alone boot program.
.TP
6.
Boot the initial load program, \fBiltd\fR, as
follows:
   Boot: \fBtc(0,2)<cr>\fR
.TP
7.
\fBIltd\fR will initiate a question and answer sequence
to control the remainder of the \s-1UNIX\s+1 system
installation process.
.SH FILES
/etc/shutdown
.SH "SEE ALSO"
filesave(1M), fsck(1M), init(1M), shutdown(1M).
.br
.sp
\f2NS16000 SYS16 System Manual\fR \- Chapter 4
.br
\f2\s-1UNIX\s+1 System V Operator's Guide\f1 \- Chapter 4.
.\"	@(#)NSCops.1m	6.2 of 10/15/84
