.TH LINK 2 
.SH NAME
link \- link to a file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B int link (path1, path2)
.br
.B char \(**path1, \(**path2;
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Path1\^
points to a
path name
naming an existing file.
.I Path2\^
points to a
path name
naming the new directory entry to be created.
.I Link\^
creates a new link (directory entry) for the existing file.
.PP
.I Link\^
will fail and no link will be created if one or more of the following
are true:
.TP 15
.SM
\%[ENOTDIR]
A component of either
path prefix
is not a directory.
.TP
.SM
\%[ENOENT]
A component of either
path prefix
does not exist.
.TP
.SM
\%[EACCES]
A component of either
path prefix
denies search permission.
.TP
.SM
\%[ENOENT]
The file named by
.I path1\^
does not exist.
.TP
.SM
\%[EEXIST]
The link named by
.I path2\^
exists.
.TP
.SM
\%[EPERM]
The file named by
.I path1\^
is a directory and the effective user
.SM ID
is not super-user.
.TP
.SM
\%[EXDEV]
The link named by
.I path2\^
and the file named by
.I path1\^
are on different logical devices (file systems).
.TP
.SM
\%[ENOENT]
.I Path2\^
points to a null path name.
.TP
.SM
\%[EACCES]
The requested link requires writing in a directory
with a mode
that denies write permission.
.TP
.SM
\%[EROFS]
The requested link requires writing in a directory on a read-only file system.
.TP
.SM
\%[EFAULT]
.I Path\^
points outside the allocated address space of the process.
.TP
.SM
\%[EMLINK]
The maximum number of links to a file would be exceeded.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 is returned.
Otherwise, a value of \-1 is returned and
.I errno\^
is set to indicate the error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
unlink(2).
.\"	@(#)link.2	6.2 of 9/6/83
