.TH LSEEK 2 
.SH NAME
lseek \- move read/write file pointer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B long lseek (fildes, offset, whence)
.br
.B int fildes;
.br
.B long offset;
.br
.B int whence;
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Fildes\^
is a
file descriptor
returned from a
.IR creat ,
.IR open ,
.IR dup ,
or
.I fcntl\^
system call.
.I Lseek\^
sets the file pointer associated with
.I fildes\^
as follows:
.RS
.HP 6
If
.I whence\^
is 0, the pointer is set to
.I offset\^
bytes.
.HP 6
If
.I whence\^
is 1, the pointer is set to its current location plus
.IR offset .
.HP 6
If
.I whence\^
is 2, the pointer is set to the size of the
file plus
.IR offset .
.RE
.PP
Upon successful completion, the resulting pointer location,
as measured in bytes from the beginning of the file, is returned.
.PP
.I Lseek\^
will fail
and the file pointer will remain unchanged
if one or more of the following are true:
.TP 15
\%[EBADF]
.I Fildes\^
is not an open file descriptor.
.TP
\%[ESPIPE]
.I Fildes\^
is associated with a pipe or fifo.
.TP
\%[EINVAL and SIGSYS signal]
.I Whence\^
is not 0, 1, or 2.
.TP
\%[EINVAL]
The resulting file pointer would be negative.
.PP
Some devices are incapable of seeking.
The value of the file pointer associated with such a device
is undefined.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, a non-negative integer
indicating the file pointer value
is returned.
Otherwise, a value of \-1 is returned and
.I errno\^
is set to indicate the error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
creat(2), dup(2), fcntl(2), open(2).
.\"	@(#)lseek.2	6.2 of 9/6/83
