'\" t
.TH SIGNAL 2
.SH NAME
signal \- specify what to do upon receipt of a signal
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <signal.h>
.PP
.B int (\(**signal (sig, func))(\|)
.br
.B int sig;
.br
.B void (\(**func)(\|);
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Signal\^
allows the calling process to choose one of three ways
in which it is possible to handle the receipt of a specific signal.
.I Sig\^
specifies the signal and
.I func\^
specifies the choice.
.PP
.I Sig\^
can be assigned any one of the following except
.BR \s-1SIGKILL\s+1 : 
.PP
.TS
center;
l l l.
\f3\s-1SIGHUP\s+1\fR	01	hangup
\f3\s-1SIGINT\s+1\fR	02	interrupt
\f3\s-1SIGQUIT\s+1\fR	03*	quit
\f3\s-1SIGILL\s+1\fR	04*	illegal instruction (not reset when caught)
\f3\s-1SIGTRAP\s+1\fR	05*	trace trap (not reset when caught)
\f3\s-1SIGIOT\s+1\fR	06*	\s-1IOT\s0 instruction
\f3\s-1SIGEMT\s+1\fR	07*	\s-1EMT\s0 instruction
\f3\s-1SIGFPE\s+1\fR	08*	floating point exception
\f3\s-1SIGKILL\s+1\fR	09	kill (cannot be caught or ignored)
\f3\s-1SIGBUS\s+1\fR	10*	bus error
\f3\s-1SIGSEGV\s+1\fR	11*	segmentation violation
\f3\s-1SIGSYS\s+1\fR	12*	bad argument to system call
\f3\s-1SIGPIPE\s+1\fR	13	write on a pipe with no one to read it
\f3\s-1SIGALRM\s+1\fR	14	alarm clock
\f3\s-1SIGTERM\s+1\fR	15	software termination signal
\f3\s-1SIGUSR1\s+1\fR	16	user-defined signal 1
\f3\s-1SIGUSR2\s+1\fR	17	user-defined signal 2
\f3\s-1SIGCLD\s+1\fR	18	death of a child
		(see \f2WARNING\fR below)
\f3\s-1SIGPWR\s+1\fR	19	power fail
		(see \f2WARNING below)
.TE
.PP
See below for the significance of the asterisk
.RB ( \(** )
in the above list.
.RE
.PP
.I Func\^
is assigned one of three values:
.BR \s-1SIG_DFL\s+1 ,
.BR \s-1SIG_IGN\s+1 ,
or a
.IR "function address" .
The actions prescribed by these values are as follows: 
.RS 2
.PP
.SM
.B SIG_DFL
\&\-  terminate process upon receipt of a signal
.RS 8
Upon receipt of the signal
.IR sig ,
the receiving process is to be terminated with all of the consequences outlined
in
.IR exit (2).
In addition a ``core image'' will be made in
the current working directory of the receiving
process if
.I sig\^
is one for which an asterisk appears in the above list
.I and
the following conditions are met:
.RS 8
.PP
The effective user
.SM ID
and the real user
.SM ID
of the receiving 
process are equal.
.PP
An ordinary file named
.B core
exists and is writable or can be created.
If the file must be created, it will have the following properties:
.RS 8
.PP
a mode of 0666 modified by the file creation mask
.RI [see  " umask" (2)]
.PP
a file owner
.SM ID
that is the same as the effective user
.SM ID
of the receiving process.
.PP
a file group
.SM ID
that is the same as the effective group
.SM ID
of the receiving process
.RE
.RE
.RE
.RE
.PP
.SM
.B SIG_IGN
\&\-  ignore signal
.RS 8
The signal 
.I sig\^
is to be ignored.
.PP
Note: the signal
.B
.SM SIGKILL
cannot be ignored.
.RE
.PP
.I function address\^
\&\-  catch signal
.RS 8
Upon receipt of the signal
.IR sig ,
the receiving process is to execute the signal-catching function pointed to by
.IR func .
The signal number
.I sig\^
will be passed as the only argument to the signal-catching function.
Additional arguments are passed to the signal-catching
function for hardware-generated signals.
Before entering the signal-catching function, the value of
.I func\^
for the caught signal will be set to
.SM
.B SIG_DFL
unless the signal is
.SM
.BR SIGILL ,
.SM
.BR SIGTRAP ", or"
.SM
.BR SIGPWR .
.PP
Upon return from the signal-catching function, the receiving process will
resume execution at the point it was interrupted.
.PP
When a signal that is to be caught occurs during a 
.IR read ", a"  " write" ,
.RI an " open" ", or an " ioctl\^
system call on a slow device (like a terminal; but not a file), during a
.IR pause
system call, or during a
.I wait\^
system call that does not return immediately due to the existence of a
previously stopped or zombie
process, the signal catching function will be executed and then the
interrupted system call may return a \-1 to the calling process with
.I errno\^
set to
.SM EINTR\*S.
.PP
Note: The signal
.B
.SM SIGKILL
cannot be caught.
.RE
.RE
.PP
A call to
.I signal\^
cancels a pending signal
.I sig\^
except for a pending
.B \s-1SIGKILL\s+1
signal.
.PP
.I Signal\^
will fail if
.I sig\^
is an illegal signal number, including
.SM
.BR SIGKILL .
.SM
\%[EINVAL]
.SH RETURN VALUE
Upon successful completion,
.I signal\^
returns the previous value of
.I func\^
for the specified signal
.IR sig .
Otherwise, a value of \-1 is returned and
.I errno\^
is set to indicate the error.
.SH SEE ALSO
kill(2), pause(2), ptrace(2), wait(2), setjmp(3C).
.br
kill(1) in the
\f2\s-1UNIX\s+1 System V User Reference Manual\fR.
.SH WARNING
Two other signals that behave differently than the signals described above
exist in this release of the system; they are:
.PP
.RS 8
.nf
.ta \w'SIGMMMM 'u +\w'15\(**  'u
.BR \s-1SIGCLD\s+1 "	18	death of a child (reset when caught)"
.BR \s-1SIGPWR\s+1 "	19	power fail (not reset when caught)"
.fi
.RE
.PP
There is no guarantee that, in future releases of the
.SM UNIX\*S
system, these signals will continue to behave as described below;
they are included only for compatibility with other versions of the
.SM UNIX
system.
Their use in new programs is strongly discouraged.
.PP
For these signals,
.I func\^
is assigned one of three values:
.BR \s-1SIG_DFL\s+1 ,
.BR \s-1SIG_IGN\s+1 ,
or a
.IR "function address"  .
The actions prescribed by these values of are as follows: 
.RS 2
.PP
.SM
.B SIG_DFL
- ignore signal
.RS 8
The signal is to be ignored.
.RE
.PP
.SM
.B SIG_IGN
- ignore signal
.RS 8
The signal is to be ignored.
Also, if
.I sig\^
is
.SM
.BR SIGCLD ,
the calling process's child processes will not create zombie processes when
they terminate; see
.IR exit (2).
.RE
.PP
.I function address\^
- catch signal
.RS 8
If the signal is
.SM
.BR SIGPWR ,
the action to be taken is the same as that described above for
.I func\^
equal to
.IR "function address" .
The same is true if the signal is
.SM
.B SIGCLD
except, that while the process is executing the signal-catching function,
any received
.SM
.B SIGCLD
signals will be queued and the signal-catching function will be continually
reentered until the queue is empty.
.RE
.PP
The
.SM
.B SIGCLD
affects two other system calls 
.RI [ wait "(2), and " exit (2)]
in the following ways:
.TP 8
.I wait\^
If the
.I func\^
value of
.SM
.B SIGCLD
is set to
.SM
.B SIG_IGN
and a
.I wait\^
is executed, the
.I wait\^
will block until all of the calling process's child processes terminate;
it will then return a value of \-1 with
.I errno\^
set to
.SM ECHILD.
.TP 8
.I exit\^
If in the exiting process's parent process the
.I func\^
value of
.SM
.B SIGCLD
is set to
.SM
.BR SIG_IGN ,
the exiting process will not create a zombie process.
.PP
When processing a pipeline, the shell
makes the last process in the pipeline the parent of the proceeding processes.
A process that may be piped into in this manner (and thus become the parent
of other processes) should take care not to set
.SM
.B SIGCLD
to be caught.
.\"	@(#)signal.2	6.2 of 9/6/83
