.TH STAT 2
.SH NAME
stat, fstat \- get file status
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/stat.h>
.PP
.B int stat (path, buf)
.br
.B char \(**path;
.br
.B struct stat \(**buf;
.PP
.B int fstat (fildes, buf)
.br
.B int fildes;
.br
.B struct stat \(**buf;
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Path\^
points to a
path name
naming a file.
Read, write, or execute permission of the named file is not required,
but all directories
listed in the
path name
leading to the file must be searchable.
.I Stat\^
obtains information about the named file.
.PP
Similarly,
.I fstat\^
obtains information about an open file
known by the
file descriptor
.IR fildes ,
obtained from a successful
.IR open ,
.IR creat ,
.IR dup ,
.IR fcntl ,
or
.I pipe\^
system call.
.PP
.I Buf\^
is a pointer to a
.I stat\^
structure into which information
is placed concerning the file.
.PP
The contents of the structure pointed to by
.I buf\^
include the following members:
.RS
.ta 8n 20n
ushort	st_mode;	/\(** File mode; see
.IR mknod (2)
\(**/
.br
ino_t	st_ino;	/\(** Inode number \(**/
.br
dev_t	st_dev;	/\(**
.SM ID
of device containing \(**/
.br
		/\(** a directory entry for this file \(**/
.br
dev_t	st_rdev;	/\(**
.SM ID
of device \(**/
.br
		/\(** This entry is defined only for \(**/
.br
		/\(** character special or block special files \(**/
.br
short	st_nlink;	/\(** Number of links \(**/
.br
ushort	st_uid;	/\(** User
.SM ID
of the file's owner \(**/
.br
ushort	st_gid;		/\(** Group
.SM ID
of the file's group \(**/
.br
off_t	st_size;	/\(** File size in bytes \(**/
.br
time_t	st_atime;	/\(** Time of last access \(**/
.br
time_t	st_mtime;	/\(** Time of last data modification \(**/
.br
time_t	st_ctime;	/\(** Time of last file status change \(**/
.br
		/\(** Times measured in seconds since \(**/
.br
		/\(** 00:00:00
.SM GMT\*S,
Jan. 1, 1970 \(**/
.RE
.DT
.PP
.TP 10
.B st_atime
Time when file data was last accessed.
Changed by the following system calls:
.IR creat (2),
.IR mknod (2),
.IR pipe (2),
.IR utime (2),
and
.IR read (2).
.TP 10
.B st_mtime
Time when data was last modified.
Changed by the following system calls:
.IR creat (2),
.IR mknod (2),
.IR pipe (2),
.IR utime (2),
and
.IR write (2).
.TP 10
.B st_ctime
Time when file status was last changed.
Changed by the following system calls:
.IR chmod (2),
.IR chown (2),
.IR creat (2),
.IR link (2),
.IR mknod (2),
.IR pipe (2),
.IR unlink (2),
.IR utime (2),
and
.IR write (2).
.PP
.I Stat\^
will fail if one or more of the following are true:
.TP 15
.SM
\%[ENOTDIR]
A component of the
path prefix
is not a directory.
.TP
.SM
\%[ENOENT]
The named file does not exist.
.TP
.SM
\%[EACCES]
Search permission is denied for a component of the
path prefix.
.TP
.SM
\%[EFAULT]
.I Buf\^
or
.I path\^
points to an invalid address.
.PP
.I Fstat\^
will fail if one or more of the following are true:
.TP 15
.SM
\%[EBADF]
.I Fildes\^
is not a valid open file descriptor.
.TP
.SM
\%[EFAULT]
.I Buf\^
points to an invalid address.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion a value of 0 is returned.
Otherwise, a value of \-1 is returned and
.I errno\^
is set to indicate the error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
chmod(2), chown(2), creat(2), link(2), mknod(2), pipe(2), read(2), time(2), unlink(2), utime(2), write(2).
.\"	@(#)stat.2	6.2 of 9/6/83
