.TH UTIME 2
.SH NAME
utime \- set file access and modification times
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
.B int utime (path, times)
.br
.B char \(**path;
.br
.B struct utimbuf \(**times;
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Path\^
points to a
path name
naming a file.
.I Utime\^
sets the access and modification times
of the named file.
.PP
If
.I times\^
is
.SM
.BR NULL ,
the access and modification times of the file are set to the current time.
A process must be the owner of the file or have write permission to use
.I utime\^
in this manner.
.PP
If
.I times\^
is not
.SM
.B NULL,
.I times\^
is interpreted as a pointer to a
.I utimbuf\^
structure and
the access and modification times are set to the values contained in
the designated structure.
Only the owner of the file or the super-user may
use
.I utime\^
this way.
.PP
The times in the following structure are measured in seconds since
00:00:00
.SM GMT\*S,
Jan. 1, 1970.
.PP
.RS
.nf
.ta .5i 1i 1.75i 2.5i
struct	utimbuf	{
	time_t	actime;	/\(** access time \(**/
	time_t	modtime;	/\(** modification time \(**/
};
.fi
.RE
.PP
.PP
.I Utime\^
will fail if one or more of the following are true:
.TP 15
.SM
\%[ENOENT]
The named file does not exist.
.TP
.SM
\%[ENOTDIR]
A component of the
path prefix
is not a directory.
.TP
.SM
\%[EACCES]
Search permission is denied by a component of the
path prefix.
.TP
.SM
\%[EPERM]
The effective user
.SM ID
is not super-user and not the owner of the file
and
.I times\^
is not
.SM
.BR NULL .
.TP
.SM
\%[EACCES]
The effective user
.SM ID
is not super-user and not the owner of the file
and 
.I times\^
is
.SM
.B NULL
and write access is denied.
.TP
.SM
\%[EROFS]
The file system containing the file is mounted read-only.
.TP
.SM
\%[EFAULT]
.I Times\^
is not
.SM
.B NULL
and points outside the process's allocated address space.
.TP
.SM
\%[EFAULT]
.I Path\^
points outside the process's allocated address space.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 is returned.
Otherwise, a value of \-1 is returned and
.I errno\^
is set to indicate the error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
stat(2).
.\"	@(#)utime.2	6.2 of 9/6/83
